{1}: This card's flavor text becomes the flavor text of your choice. (This ability doesn't work because it's flavor text, not rules text (but neither does this reminder text, so you figure it out).) , Although long since dead, the banished dissenters finally took their vengeance. , As Gerrard's form vanished into the maw of trees, Hanna mouthed a silent plea, mourning a crushed dream. , Death took his humanity but not his skill with the knife. , "Though Serra has not been seen for twenty years, her gargoyles still watch over our city and punish the guilty."
—Gulsen, abbey matron , "The darkness crawls with vampires and ghouls, but we are not without allies."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch , "The Matrons are kindly souls, but don't ask one for an ale."
—Halina, Dwarven Trader , undefined , "I'm too modest a wizard to reveal the full extent of my abilities."
—Ertai, wizard adept , Mirri's hackles rose as Ertai continued expounding his virtues. "If that arrogant brat doesn't shut up soon," she growled to herself, "I'm going to have to kill him." , Tenacity prevails when hopes die. , As war raged on, the young mages became more direct in their tactics, often at great cost. , The *Weatherlight* banked sharply as the colossal beast rose up to crush the lone rider. "My bet's on the dirt," Gerrard said flatly. , "No one can fight the tide forever." , The overconfident are the most vulnerable. , The desert is a voracious beast, devouring both flesh and stone. , The Izzet quickly suspended their policy of lifetime guarantees. , In pursuit of Urza, the Phyrexians sent countless foul legions into Serra's realm. Though beaten back, they left it tainted with uncleansable evil. , The strength of law is unwavering. It is an iron bar in a world of water. , "In your misguided attempt to subvert the law, you have eloquently explained why the law must exist." , Another moving piece by the artist El Gecko. , "You can break nothing I cannot mend." , "There are two ways for me to pass this gate. One involves you remaining conscious."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , "I dreamt of it once. Now I fear it dreams of me."
—Tolarian scholar , Some smiles show cheer; some merely show teeth. , "I fear to keep an open mind, for there are those who would use it as a door to my soul."
—Voka Schlak, Mauzam Asylum inmate, diary , His slaves crave death more than they desire freedom. He denies them both. , It rides to a chorus of whispers that are more felt than heard. , "To survive, you must seize every opportunity."
—Daghatar the Adamant , Stone to endure, roots to remember. , "Wherever I walk, the ancestors walk too." , His beasts move the great siege towers of the Abzan across the endless sands. , The fastest way across the dunes is above. , "These roads are desolate and changeable. Follow me, or die in the wastes." , "The Mardu rush headlong toward extinction. We ensure the longevity of our clan by protecting our territory, not rampaging through it." , "A tempest is coming. Turn your faces toward the wind!" , "We don't choose who comes here. We choose how long they stay." , They brandish their latest theories as warriors would wield weapons. , Its secrets once wrought the greatest artifice ever known. Now crabs loot the rubble to decorate their shells. , "I've seen lightning move slower."
—Nomad sentry , Its food just got a lot smaller and its stomach a lot bigger. , Was it just lonely, or was some form of evolution inevitable? , "I fight for the suns, the surface, and everything in between." , An Auriok shield is polished to a mirror finish even on the inside, enabling its bearer to watch foes ahead and behind. , "I have seen and heard much here. There are secrets within secrets. Let me show you."
—Takara, to Eladamri , "The Cabal mocks the natural order. For its minions, death is just a pause between duties."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte , Many have heard the slither of dragging armor and the soft squelch of its voice. But only its victims ever meet its icy gaze. , It fears no sword and leaves no bones behind. , The first sliver burst against the cave wall, and others piled in behind to deepen the new tunnel. , Phyrexia had tried to take Urza's soul. He was relieved that Shiv tried to claim only his soles. , Its web is an excellent source of found copper for the daring or the stupid. , The best healers are intimately familiar with death. , Like all priests, she gives her blessings only to those truly worthy of them. , The Kalonian word for "ammunition" is the same as the word for "bait." , Sometimes "innovation" means "stealing another's secret before anyone else can." , The elves of Argoth were trained to ride these creatures, even when their mounts traveled upside-down. , Renegades find ever more creative ways to work around the Consulate's aether regulations. , "On every plane, there are those who run toward danger."
—Gideon Jura , Seen through Rakdos eyes, a cruel betrayal is a hilarious stunt. , "You don't want to know what happens after I put on the goggles." , The shield took a year to craft, a month to enchant, and a decade to master—all for one glorious moment. , "Beware Adamaro! In him all pain and anger is perfected."
—Isao, Enlightened Bushi , Such loyalty can only be made. , "You sure you want to see what emerges? You might not like it. It definitely won't like you."
—Kinnan, bonder prodigy , "Eh, needs more toad."
—Gulistan, Simic biomancer , "We encountered the sentinels in the wastes, near no living thing. Their purpose was inscrutable."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "There is no nobler creature in all of Terisiare."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , She doesn't escort the dead to the afterlife, but instead raises them to fight and die again. , Terisiare has only two kinds of weather: cold and weird. , "I'll wring out your tiny mind like a sponge."
—Urborg witch , The passionate intensity of the Ghitu tempered by the cool insight of Tolarian training. , "Basri has shown me the way forward, and I will follow." , "You and your ship will make a fine addition to my fleet." , "Damn the cannons, mates. Charge!" , When the task spilled over into undeath, he stopped calling it his life's work. , "My sword is pledged to the defense of this city, not to the throne or this usurper." , ". . . And at his passing, the bodies of the world's great warriors shall rise from their graves and follow him to battle."
—The Anvilonian Grimoire , "They are like their vedalken masters: untouchable, aloof, and omnipresent."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader , "Improvement is a consequence of practice."
—Stitcher Geralf , "The soldier's path is worn smooth by the tread of many feet—all in one direction, none returning."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , "The beneficent council deems you worthy of favor. They hope this doesn't provoke envy from your peers." , The consciousness of Mat'Selesnya does not always spread in peaceful ways. , "Good, we're all here. Let's get started!" , An explorer's essentials in a wild world. , An adventure without a companion is hardly an adventure at all. , "I am neither their drover nor their leader. To these majestic beasts, I am simply their herdmate and nothing more." , The streets of Ghirapur have become dangerous. It's good to have a dependable companion. , Athreos cares little for the other gods' conflict with mortals. He is concerned only with safe passage for the dead. , Inner strength is never seen until it makes all the difference. , "With this marvel, even the weak have a fighting chance!"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , "The endurance of the ancient turtles in a land so harsh makes a strong case for patience, tranquility, and composure."
—Gavi, nest warden , "Although fragile, the aeolipile could be quite destructive."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I* , "Paradox? Eh, we'll worry about that yesterday."
—Edorin, the Timesmith , Ærathi children who show promise are left to survive for a year in the wilderness. Those who return are shown the way of the Berserker. , "Oh, you must be mistaken. Hawks are solitary hunters, you see."
—Bunder Diedreck, ornithologist , Successful delivery is *not* guaranteed. , The best of their trade know every bolt of their rigs, stem to stern. , "Kefnet taught us to turn obstacles into advantages."
—Neponem, vizier of Kefnet , "When you put all of yourself into an attack, without fear or hesitation, in that instant you may attain greatness."
—Predak, Gateless freemage , In the towering trees of the Samok Stand and the predators that guard them, the might of the Ravnican wild has returned. , Dwarves have an instinct for repair, an inherent understanding of how systems work, and a reputation for fearlessness. They're perfect candidates for the Fair's emergency response team. , Drakes can swerve to avoid a single arrow, but they can't dodge the whole sky. , They are cautious with their body language and facial expressions. Any stray movement could betray the positions of the troops they protect and cost many lives. , They can conjure stars from a clear sky. , "The absence of binocular vision imposes certain challenges for a flying creature, which are overcome via echolocation."
—Simic research notes , The Consulate recruits its best pilots from the League of Aeronauts. Many go on to command entire fleets. , "All tinkerers have their heads in the clouds. I don't intend to stop there." , An ancient device recovered from a thawing glacier high in the Karplusan mountains. , "The universe is my instrument, and the song I play upon it is one you are forbidden to hear." , "Creatures fade in and out of existence. It's an unfortunate side effect. The losses are tolerable."
—Belbe , "I don't know what that is or who it belongs to, but it's shiny and I want it." , As fleeting as a cephalid's promise. , "Is it just me, or does that meteor have teeth?" , As the foul beast appeared, arcane lightning crackled around it. , While most power is used for ordinary, everyday tasks, one shouldn't underestimate its potential for the extraordinary. , The militia formed up in the central plaza awaiting the onslaught, but the giants never quite made it. , Gremlins in the wild feed on nodules of pure aether, which are also prized by miners. , The chill wind extinguishes flame, and frosts the leaf on the branch. , It powers the dreams of Ghirapur. , "You can come back once you've learned some manners—and figured out how to reconstitute your physical forms." , Its fickle form holds hints of a thousand former identities. , Most smiths shape metal, but some prefer more delicate materials. , "The strain upon the veil between worlds began to show near the end of the Kami War. Strange happenings that neither side could control lashed out across Kamigawa."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , "May you wake to find you were only ever a dream."
—Mephidross curse , "You were saying?" , "Release that which was never caged."
—Spellbomb inscription , "Don't worry, there's plenty for everyone."
—Vickon, Eleventh Company battlemage , When Gatha fell, he was called to account for each abomination he created. , "I do love the rain . . . but this storm feels somehow wrong, Taysir."
—Daria , The tide of magic brought them here. Now it would take them home. , "To survive up here, I've learned when to use my harpoon and when to just enjoy the view."
—Kadhu, skywhaler , Consulate engineers have developed safe methods of harvesting aether, but renegades aren't always so careful. , If you can't find a doorway, make one. , Its frill inspired the design of efficient aether collectors. , Once a welcoming hub for explorers, Affa became a place of guarded tongues and quick defenses. , "Through all the terrors we face, I hold on to the memory of the world before the Eldrazi came. I'd like to see that world again." , The problem isn't the indrik's enthusiasm, it's Ravnica's lack of guardrails. , One rarely notices a heartbeat, save when it is stolen. , undefined , Facets of life, reflections of the soul. , "Every act of destruction has a repercussion."
—Karn, silver golem , undefined , Tel-Jilad's sworn protectors are the trolls, yet more fearsome protectors were created by the Tangle itself. , Erebos's minions hunt the Returned and warn those who consider the same folly. , The light in the woods just before dawn reveals a glimmering network of branches, roots, and spiderwebs. The acolytes of Kruphix walk this lattice unseen. , "Two-faced" is an understatement. , "Go ahead. Take it. You'll be so very powerful . . . and what harm can it do?" , "The Order of Stromgald spreads its poisonous lies from within Varchild's troops, and still she sees only visions of conquest."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain , "You are breathing borrowed air." , "The more secrets you have, the more easily you become my pawn." , "Barbarians! They burned my favorite chair! We'll kill them all!"
—Anje Falkenrath , The star that burns twice as bright burns half as long. , "Mowu was wary that day, as though he sensed the danger ahead."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue , "Approach from behind. That way, if it does charge, at least you aren't in front of it."
—Vivien Reid , Designed by Markus Persson , The power of the wild, concentrated in a single charge. , In the aftermath of war, when the slaying is long done, the greatest miseries come home to roost. , The sharp memory of Daxos's death stabbed into Elspeth's soul. , "Your death will take a mere moment, but it will feel like an eternity."
—Vilis, Broker of Blood , Life's circle has become inverted in Grixis. The same energy is endlessly recycled and becomes more stagnant with each pass. , "Everyone in this city is choosing sides. I choose inside." , Lieutenant Kos has never met a group of recruits he could not inspire or a mob he could not quell. , "The Second Sun nears its destination! Let it light the way to ours!" , "Hesitation breeds dissension. To be worthy of the next life, you must never look back."
—Anep, vizier of Hazoret , "Give me a crew like this one and I'd rule any sea I sailed."
—Angrath , "I never liked you. Now get up—we have a fight to finish." , "A slayer gets by on wits and reflexes."
—Higa, slayer-captain of Gatstaf , "In the Tarkir I once knew, the Abzan revered their ancestor trees. Now, as Dromoka, they cut their finest groves to make weapons."
—Sarkhan Vol , "Hold the line, for family and the fallen!" , Some ainok of the mountains are accepted among the Temur as trusted hunt-mates. , Random mutations among Rootwater merfolk were common—and disturbing. , "We help our Southern Order comrades as much as we can. But the Cabal's insidious influence spreads, dividing our forces and leaving new arrivals to fend for themselves."
—Commander Eesha , "Supplies inbound. Keep that pressure on." , It has two kinds of droppings, neither of which is particularly pleasant. , As the ship approached, the jade totem rose high overhead. Power rippled. Eyes of stone glowed and crackled. Out hissed a breath of the world, and a windstorm came alive. , Wind is forceful, yet ephemeral. It can knock a dragon out of the sky, yet pass through the smallest crack unhindered. , "United, our roar will level mountains." , "I will go where the lion-man leads." , "He hasn't returned to the Cloud Forest. But I can still sense his calming presence."
—Zaliki of Naya , Planeswalkers conjured replicas of old allies, reminders of the homeworlds that would fall next if Bolas prevailed. , "Ajani goes where he is needed most and in his name we keep his lands safe." , "You cannot defend others if your own well-being is neglected." , "No angel bars our ascent. Emeria waits above!" , Her bold movements are anchored in the careful precision of each rope. , Among Godo's hordes, "beware of falling rocks" came to mean "akki live nearby." , "It remains unclear whether the akki shamans could in fact create storms or simply predicted them."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , No matter where you find them, goblins love rocks. , "What part of 'hayaku ikee!' did you not understand?" , Akki were very territorial, attacking and destroying any settlements that came too close to their mountain homes. The more successful their raids, the bolder they became. , The lava-proof shells of akki evolved over centuries, as akki pranks almost always got seriously out of hand. , "I lost my hounds in the war and thus found myself employing akki as servants. I found their training to be remarkably similar."
—Kensuke, houndmaster , "Deep inside the Sokenzan Mountains, a band of akki discovered a cache of ancient items of power. Their ensuing spree of destruction became known as 'The Three Days of Fun.'"
—*Observations of the Kami War* , "If you're in Akoum and you glimpse a shadow overhead, the worst thing you can do is duck."
—Chadir the Navigator , In the face of extinction, the most perilous endeavors can be cause for hope. , Hellhound packs roam the Spikefields, basking in the harsh sunlight and lighting the night with their flames. , undefined , Bant's armies are primarily composed of members of the Mortar caste, loyal commoners who haven't yet earned a sigil. , "The time to serve is now." , An Akroan soldier's worth is measured by the number of swords raised by his battle cry. , "Fair fight? How could it be a fair fight? We're Akroans. They're not." , He ensures escape attempts are just that—attempts. , The enemies' shields are the first to shatter, and their battle line is never far behind. , Even when many of the soldiers who guarded Akros were called away, its safety was never in doubt. , Shields up, spears out, heels set, hearts firm. , "Trust me. When you have earned a god's favor, you'll know." , "Wrath is no vice when inflicted upon the deserving." , The clerics saw her as a divine gift. She saw them only as allies in her war against Phage. , Akroma asked for only one thing from her troops: unwavering, unconditional loyalty. , "No rest. No mercy. No matter what."
—Memorial inscription , "Many must die for the one who should not have perished." , "Your arrogance amazes me, Kaervek. Did you not know the price you would pay?"
—Mangara , Al-abara simply laughed and lifted one finger, and the carpet carried her high out of our reach. , The appearance of a kirin signifies the passing or arrival of an important figure. As word of sightings spread, all the khans took it to mean themselves. Only the shaman Chianul thought of Sarkhan Vol. , "Its stones seem to serve a healing function, but removing them intact is an exhausting process."
—Tolarian research notes , "We hold sacred the powers of light and life. Truth and honor are our greatest weapons."
—Alabaster creed , "Healing is a matter of time, but it is sometimes also a matter of opportunity."
—D'Avenant proverb , Its mortar is mixed with waters straight from the Fountain of Cho. , "Course he ran! *I* wouldn't want to stare down that barrel, either!"
—Alaborn soldier , "Ever proud, ever vigilant."
—Grenadier motto , Muskets gave the Alaborn army an advantage it had long lacked—air defense. , "I dedicate my body to my country And my life to my King."
—Alaborn Soldier's Oath , "A good lamp will light your way. A good ring will clear it."
—Nervan, royal jeweler , "One timely cry of warning can save nine of surprise."
—Sidar Jabari , Side effects may include foul odors, scalding steam, and spontaneous nonexistence. , "Impressive."
—Chandra Nalaar , Persecuted alchemists fled deep into Kessig's wilds, seeking solitude to continue their ghoulish craft. , A weapon best suited for those with good aim and steady hands. , "Rankle's pranks are child's play. My games will topple kingdoms." , "Halana and I have a bond that'll never be broken." , Considering the zealous armies, vile poachers, and titanic monsters, it's always wise to keep one eye on the horizon. , Kongming's predecessor helped Liu Bei win the battle of Fancheng by recognizing and defeating Cao Ren's use of the dreaded "Eight Gold Locks" formation. , Boundaries drawn on maps or marked with stone have no meaning for the Mardu. , "Greet death with sword in hand." , "Doesn't look like much, does it?"
—Alexi, zephyr mage , The Keldons didn't know her name, but they still cursed her in battle. , It lurks just under the surface, using the algae-choked tar pits of Jund as both home and hunting blind. , It contains the totality of Alhammarret's notes, theories, and ponderings. , "When he reached the entrance of the cavern, he pronounced the words, 'Open, Sesame!'"
—*The Arabian Nights*, Junior Classics trans. , "Those who hide in hollow towers would do well to remember the rain."
—Reyhan, Samite Alchemist , The last hedron slotted into place, locking Ulamog in an infinite loop of binding energy. , "Why would I ever want to look away?" , "Sure, you know the law. But I know the streets." , One distracts the victim, the other extracts the valuables. , "You never know what day might be your last." , A common foe is the death of old hatreds. , "Our formation was scattered after Sea Gate fell. If you're fighting the Eldrazi, consider us your newest recruits." , Each commander looked at the others and wondered who would be first to break the alliance. , "The emergence of the Eldrazi isn't necessarily a bad thing, as long as you've already lived a fulfilling and complete life without regrets."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter , "We turned old weapons into new warriors."
—Jhoira, master artificer , With or without witnesses, the suns continued their prismatic dance. , "When the fifth sun rose, Mirrodin saw its first true dawn."
—Inscribed on the skin of Thrun, the last troll , A faerie's glee at her trove quickly fades to contentment, then to boredom, then to an urge to steal more. , The light of hope blinded Pantor to the ills of the world. , No earthly armor is protection against this sweetness. , She lures victims with promises of flesh, captures them in a net of deceit, and destroys them in the embrace of the sea. , Laughed at the brushwagg
—Hunters' expression meaning "died unexpectedly" , "Helping people is mostly a matter of teaching them to help themselves."
—Sisay, journal , Alms-coins are only redeemable at Orzhov businesses. , "There is no justice when some profit and others go without." , Even the bitterest enemies of the Burning-Tree Clan respect the strength of Borborygmos's rule. , Being an alpha means proving it every full moon. , Kavu leaders instinctively protect their herds from harm. , First to charge, first to fight. , The best leaders are made by their followers. , Hunger seized the tyrranax, and the Sylvok's vision quest ended in disaster. , The Temur welcome bears into the clan, fighting alongside them in battle. The relationship dates back to when they labored side by side under Sultai rule. , "A rare and fascinating phenomenon."
—Tamiyo , "On the eighth day, a blizzard hit. Supplies were lost, and morale plummeted. On the ninth day, Dover found us."
—*To the Summit: A Tale of Survival* , "Dawn-kissed, he nourishes the golden grain."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet , "It is not that you will go mad. It is that you will beg for madness."
—Volrath , Supplicants offer flesh and silver, flowers and blood. The altar takes what it will, eyes gleaming with unspoken promises. , "The altar does nothing; the device is crushed under the weight of its own impurity."
—Ushanti, leonin seer , "Don't worry, your death will be as informative as possible."
—Gorghul, augur of skulls , Squee bounced up and down. "I sees a horsey, an' a piggy, an' a—"
"If you don't shut up," hissed Mirri, "you'll see a kidney and a spleeny." , "We pray to Avacyn on high. On snow-white wings fearless you fly. Keep safe our souls. Keep safe our lives. May angels watch us from the skies."
—Children's prayer , Neither its appearance nor its temperature varies as the years pass, an eternal testament to the forces that shaped Dominaria. , "Come closer, dear, and let me see that bauble. I've got a match for it somewhere..." , "I knew I'd find a use for all that newt spittle!" , And thus at Maze's End
the runners end their strife.
Our saving grace, that hooded kid,
is now Guildpact for life.
—*RAVNICA! The Musical* , "Life is a game. The only thing that matters is whether you're a pawn or a player." , Treefolk and elves share a common interest in the forests, but really the elves just feel at home with the view from above. , "Conquering your first world is the hardest, after all. My power grew as I moved from world to world, taking anything that would make the next taking easier."
—Ob Nixilis , Aetherborn who are unwilling to accept the decomposition of their bodies invent ways to preserve and augment themselves. , "Spent a lifetime learning from predators. Picked up a few tricks." , "Don't these goons have anything better to do?"
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable , The Abzan merchants soon discovered why this route was clear of dragons. , "Fair fight? I'll take survival over chivalry any day!"
—Tor Wauki, Bandit King , "Living creatures seldom impress me. But I like this one."
—Uta Falkenrath , "When one has witnessed the unspeakable, 'tis sometimes better to forget."
—Vervamon the Elder , Crovax's rage was horrifying. Within moments only blood and shreds of flesh remained of the shapeshifter. , A weapon forged for every hand. , Merfolk raided the shores untroubled for years . . . until the shores started fighting back. , "The amphin have long built their society in secret. While surface dwellers squabbled over trivial borders, they patiently expanded, building their ammonite temple-caves. Now amphin priests eye the shore, and amphin hunters gird for war."
—Gor Muldrak, *Cryptohistories* , "There are those who do not believe in the existence of the amphin. This seems somehow to be of their own design."
—Gor Muldrak, *Cryptohistories* , "It's all a game. You shouldn't get too attached to the pieces." , Quick and agile, Amrou Kithkin can usually escape from even the most fearsome opponents. , The people of Amrou were scattered by war and driven into hiding. Scouts maintain the beacon fires that signal "return" and "home." , The paradise of Amrou Haven had become a field of cinders. Its people struggled to survive, hoping to see visions of its past in the strange storms that quickly passed. , The aven claim it feeds on thunder and rainbows. , Among the first allies Urza gained were the people of Kroog. As a sign of friendship, Urza gave the healers of the city potent amulets; afterwards, thousands journeyed to Kroog in hope of healing, greatly adding to the city's glory. , Whether it is magical, lucky, or merely old, it is cherished, and that gives it power. , Trade to trade, not to keep.
—Suq'Ata motto , "After years of study, I've learned an important lesson: the relics we watch may be watching us back."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage , "The Ancestors are the wisdom of the tribe and the soul of the Homelands. I am eternally in their debt."
—Taysir , "They who challenge a minotaur enjoy the taste of their own blood."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , Just try taking *this* bull by the horns. , "The Spirit Crafters sing of all our people. They sing of those lost, of those found, and of those who are yet to be."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman , If you're smaller than the anaconda, it considers you food. If you're larger than the anaconda, it considers you a lot of food. , "The blessings of Gaea alone are no longer enough." , Martyred for worshipping her ancestors, she now walks among them. , Rarely at rest on the Amber Throne, Anafenza always leads the Abzan Houses to battle. , "I'll take that. You won't need it when the revolution comes." , "The shaman waved the staff, and the land itself went mad."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , Akros's greatest heroes are also its royalty. , It is said that Yinglong gave birth to the qilin and the phoenix, and after them, all of the hairy and winged beings in the world. Thus it is known as the Ancestor Dragon. , "The will of all, by my hand done." , "We have faced horrors of war and terrors beyond imagining. We will overcome the uncertainties of this new life." , "I pass to you all we have ever been. Go forth and become all we never could." , "It's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards."
—Lewis Carroll,
*Through the Looking Glass* , The mage awakened the statue in hopes of learning the lost lore of her clan, but the statue was interested only in war. , The defenses of the Abzan extend well beyond the walls of their fortresses. , The arbiter Galanda Feudkiller judges Lorwyn's squabbles from a lofty perspective. , Multani's mind grasped for consciousness as rage itself rebuilt his body. , It is taller than all but the tallest trees, and older than all but the oldest. , "Why eat now what could one day grow into a feast?"
—Ojutai, translated from Draconic , The banks of the Luxa River attract all manner of predator but only the most resilient of prey. , "Knowledge demands sacrifice."
—Tojira, swamp queen , Taj-Nar, throne of Raksha Golden Cub, destined leader of the leonin prides. , When the ruins awakened, so did their defenses. , If there's anything a werewolf hates, it's a collar—especially Avacyn's Collar, the symbol of her church. , When a dragon attacks, there are no bystanders. , Those with the ability to change their nature survived Phyrexia's biological attacks. Everything else died. , The ooze has always been. The ooze will always be. , Ertai volunteered to open the portal. He figured he owed it one. , The Phyrexian killing machines couldn't have known the seriousness of their mistake in wounding the ape—they'd never seen it angry. , It outlived both king and castle. , There is no glory to be gained in the kingdom of the dead.
—Vec tomb inscription , Built in honor of Alara's creatures, the ziggurat vanished long ago. When Progenitus awakened, the temple emerged again. , "Older specimens are completely encrusted with gems, which serve as both armor and weapons."
—Tolarian research notes , Nothing burns hotter than the fires of holy rage. , "We shall persevere." , It holds a whisper from Iona: "Persevere." , As demons are drawn to suffering, angels are drawn to acts of benevolence. , Forged in dark hours from the flame that would not die. , Within her battalion she was known as the Angel of Arkvale. Until now, that was only a metaphor. , "Even in single combat, I am never alone."
—Rafiq of the Many , Only the warrior who can admit mortal weakness will be bolstered by immortal strength. , As the soldiers beneath her raised their voices, the angel spread her wings, their span seeming to cover the sky. , The harmony of the glorious is a dirge to the wicked. , "Do not treat your people as you treat your artifacts. Let them go, and they will live; seal them here, and they will die."
—Urza, to Radiant , The Boros built a prison in the sky where Azorius statutes couldn't restrict their sense of justice. , "If we cannot have peace, we will have justice."
—Aurelia , Her presence on the battlefield can transform an unruly mob into a disciplined army. , "Zendikar will triumph this day, and our armies will fly with angels." , "No single arrow can pierce an entire flock." , From mortal hope immortal power springs. , If only every message were as perfect as its bearer. , "My family sheltered in her light, the dark was content to wait."
—Crovax , "We must save you from yourselves." , Angels watch over mortals wit heavy hearts, knowing what fate awaits them in the end. , "If only an angel's wings could shelter us all."
—Barrin, master wizard , "A keen mind wields an army as a deft hand wields a sword." , "The air stirred as if fanned by angels' wings, and the enemy was turned aside."
—Tales of Ikarov the Voyager , "I feel in them a sense of duty and commitment, yet I can feel nothing else. It is as if their duty is to an empty void."
—Razia, Boros archangel , "Better the dead depart utterly than be enslaved." , She endures without Avacyn but secretly asks each soul she guides if it has seen her. , "Justice isn't done until undeath is undone." , "Though Innistrad is not cleansed of evil, we finally have cause to rejoice." , Every tear shed is a drop of immortality. , "No more fear. No more failure. No more death. No more!" , Bitter vengeance never glowed so bright nor sang so sweet. , She sings for all those who have been silenced. , She arrived like a meteorite, and the enemy fell in a shock wave of holy vengeance. , The angels did not deceive. From the start, they were clear their allegiance was to the God-Pharaoh and to him alone. , If taken, it cuts the hand that clutches it. If given, it heals the hand that holds it. , Rigorous faith and belief are rewarded on occasion, and richly so. , "She rose above me, and in that moment Varrik the Bloody died and I was born."
—Varrik the Just , Clash of sword and cry of beast fall mute when angels sound the call to prayer. , "Faith can quicken the stones themselves with life."
—Writings of Mikaeus , "Molten earth has no anger of its own. Only by infusing it with your own rage can the magma seethe and take shape."
—Koth of the Hammer , There was no reason to pray. This was already an act of the gods. , From the time they are hatchlings, river drakes are taught to pull the largest prey from the Luxa. , It is ancient, immense, and irresistible. , Orcs have been enemies of the Legion of Dusk since it was formed, and the entire race has been declared anathema. , Captain Angrath cares less about treasure than mayhem. If he can't leave Ixalan, he'll burn the plane down. , "Grand city? No. This is nothing but another squalid cage." , Sorin had created Avacyn, so it was a cruelty beyond imagining, a pain beyond description, that it fell upon him to end her forever. , "Battles no longer served a purpose in Karakas."
—Angus Mackenzie, Diary , "Joskun and the other constables serve with passion, if not with grace."
—Devin, faerie noble , "The Inn was ever a steady source of good cheer and kindness. Greatly do I miss it, now that I am gone."
—Ihsan's Shade , Folk of good heart will always find a home. , "The animal spirits are the Ancestor's grandchildren. Remember them."
—Mystic elder , "No owners allowed."
—Sanctuary sign , Irony is getting walked on by the earth instead of the other way around. , Sometimes the books hit back. , "When you have been bitten with fangs of granite, you start to long for the ivory sabers of tigers."
—Norin the Wary , A true puppet master has no need for strings. , Design leads to progress. , "We all hide a little madness behind our sophistication, do we not?" , Tawnos finally cracked the puzzle: the strange structures did not house Mishra's malevolent creations but were themselves among his creations. , The stature of the fighter matters less than the depth of the cut. , You should see how small the map is. , "Whatever Yawgmoth marks, dies. There is no escape."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general , "The most impressive performances can be done only once."
—Mote, Rakdos madcap , "Why pray to the gods, who feed on your worship? Dissolve your illusions and see the true nature of things."
—Xenagos, the Reveler , These machines build fearsome visages out of scrap metal to scare off predators who would otherwise be eager to consume them. , "I sing of benevolence and mercy, of golden wings bringing comfort to the meek and downtrodden." , Inspiration is red as rubies, flowing like honeyed wine. , "The gods here may walk among the people, but they are not with them."
—Gideon Jura , "Arise. You have been anointed by the light. Go forth and fight without fear, for you shall be victorious." , "So many have died in search of that map. And now it appears in the hands of the arrogant child Chandra Nalaar." , Angels cannot ignore pious pleas. , The warriors she leads can rarely keep pace with her, and neither can the tales. , I never metamorphosis I didn't like. , Bonder and bonded move in unison, intuiting each other's next move. , "I think not."
—Flekon the Mindcensor , Every skull has a tale to tell, and a skulkin is many dire tales cobbled together. , "Kill the queen first, or we'll be fighting her drones forever. It is not in a queen's nature to have enough servants."
—Borzard, exterminator captain , When it croaks, so do you. , It's so tough it can frighten *itself* into hiding. , Aphetto's swamps are alive with the dead. , Krosa's topmost bottom feeder. , Anurids have the problem of airborne invaders licked. , "I know its lightness, for I have seen it fly. I know its weight, for I have seen it strike."
—Brigone, soldier of Meletis , "The An-Zerrins have served me well, ever since I first killed them."
—Baron Sengir , Monkeys three, monkeys through. , It brings belligerence to new heights. , "As I desire, so it shall be."
—Nicol Bolas , "Sing, beauty. Sing for death, and for the dead."
—Ashiok , He brews trouble. , Phage became both executioner and savior, helping others to the same rebirth she had found. , Aphetto con artists started working in pairs to make it less likely they'd be the victims of con artists. , "The ignorant fear change; the wise use it as a weapon." , Merrows skulk the silty bogs around the Wanderbrine, their very thoughts stained with evil. , "There is a future in which I can see only mist and a single shadow."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , "One day, or another, perhaps I shall ring my pretty chime . . . loudly, so that all may hear."
—Grandmother Sengir , Waves of gloom crash in vain against his unyielding light. , For some customers, the old apothecary shop still opens its doors. , Kithkin jealously hoard their knowledge of poultices and remedies so that no outside threat can benefit from their wisdom. , Just as with a peach, the first bite is always the juiciest. , "I'd just let the monkey have it if I were you. You can make another, but the same can't be said of your fingers."
—Turni, Greenwheel groundskeeper , A mage willing to dedicate his life to his craft. , Aspiring wizards must demonstrate basic levels of willpower and mental discipline to even be considered for an apprenticeship. , Some tides need no moon. , "You may want to hold your breath."
—Kellyg, merrow aquitect , In water, it's as graceful as a dolphin. On land, it darts and jerks so unpredictably that few can ride it for long. , "My finest creations are fashioned after the moths of Eiganjo. They fly higher, faster, and more gracefully than any of my own designs."
—Noboru, master kitemaker , Every movement is a summons—even your screams. , It follows the green sun over Mirrodin's surface, spinning massive webs of whispersilk as it goes. , It glides around the city, a sublime combination of elegance and utility. , "We'll have time to put out the fires when those trapped within the ruins are safe." , "I would gladly give my life if it would inspire my clan to victory." , Dromoka dragons foster trust among their subjects, while the other clans must spend their time quelling rebellion. , Her webs, spun from her own hair, reach from Nyx to the mortal world and even into the Underworld. , There are few things as satisfying as a good, healthy thunk. , Though giants are mortal, they live so long and on such a grand scale that many small folk don't believe they ever truly die. , "Llanowar's boughs are ever ready To unleash an autumn of steel leaves."
—"Song of Freyalise" , The power of aether draws creatures to it like a magnetic force, and those that are touched by it are forever altered. , "We fight to stop a tyrant, but we also fight for the gentle creatures who have no concept of what befalls their world."
—Vivien Reid , "The forest will surround you with its life if you are still and calm." , Knowledge itself is neither good nor evil. Just as the wrong book in the wrong hands could doom all existence, the same book in the right hands could save it. , The Tolarian Academies are known for their magical research, powerful sorcerers, and accidental destruction of ecosystems. , Too many wizards spoil the spell, but too many spells spoil the wizard.
—Sign on entry to arcane lab , Debates between wizards are never purely academic. , "We must rely on our own knowledge, not on the dogma of the seekers or the mutterings of the sphinxes."
—Tullus of Palandius , It started as a mere drop of water. The Magic Mirror crystallized it into much more. , It breaches not physical distances but temporal ones. , Not all knowledge is learned from parchment. , He has journeyed where none have been before. Now he returns to ensure that none follow. , Nobles don wings to reach the sky villas of their peers, exchanging them for more fashionable attire upon arrival. , "If you must die today, make your death worthy of legend."
—Alesha, Who Smiles at Death , Break in case of emergency. , "Top-performing automaton combatants are to be seized and modified for service."
—Confiscation directive , The parts are as strong as the whole. , "Words of power never disappear. They sleep, awaiting those with the will to rouse them." , "Just as a broken relic can be mended, a shattered history can be made whole." , The sky rang with the cries of armored seraphs, and the darkness made a tactical retreat. , undefined , Even the wicked have nightmares. , "This is the light of Avacyn. Even in her absence she offers us hope."
—Radulf, priest of Avacyn , The necropolis at Unx was once a living city, its streets untrodden by death. , "Life ... is not ... a race." , "We think of the naga as creeping cutthroats, slitherers in the swamps. But they are equally at home in the trees."
—Goton, Qal Sisma shaman , Every shaft is graven with a name from a kin tree, calling upon the spirits of the ancestors to make it fly true. , "Did Purphoros bless Maikal because of his rage? Or did Maikal's rage blossom after he'd been blessed? Only the gods know."
—Eocles, oracle of Purphoros , "It has been my experience that soldiers most fervently follow generals who lead by example."
—Elspeth , Despite its fearsome stature, it is as elusive as a shadow, circling round to stalk those who presume to hunt it. , She sees mortals not as they wish to be, but as what they will become. , "Is it not the embodiment of our aspirations?"
—Prokopios, astronomer of Meletis , "Why would I kill you all? Who then would be left to worship me?" , Next to her designs, life seems like a pale imitation. , This secret society of mages manipulates the beliefs and opinions of others. , "Sit down and read. Educate yourself for the coming conflicts."
—Mary Harris "Mother" Jones , "Archons dispense justice according to an ancient, and flawed, premise."
—Nissa Revane , "The archon fell like a star from the sky, meeting the rising sun at the horizon's edge."
—*The Cosmogony* , In dark times, Truth bears a blade. , Until Emeria is freed, he raises his sword in her name. , A ray of hope breaks through the shroud of rain. , The silk of the archweavers adds structural integrity to otherwise unstable Izzet building sites. , Swifter than an angel, crueler than a demon, and relentless as a ghoul. , Lightning burns its own path. , Some storms never blow over. , The storms of the wastelands form quickly and hit hard. Few have anything to do with rain. , A shuffling sound and the smell of ozone follow the slogger as surely as its electric tail. , "A realm once green now ruled by Frost, Where flesh and field both pay its cost. Those dearly loved, forever lost . . ."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings* , "Those Foxes are wily, swift, and ferocious. They are the warriors of the snows."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , "No matter where we cat warriors go in the world, those stupid slobberers find us."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , "Don't try to hit your enemies. Concentrate on the space between them, and fill the air with doom."
—Spear-Tribe teaching , "Artifice sundered the world. It shall not again wreak such sorrow." , Though the Time of Ice has ended, its relics still slumber in New Argive. , "With the proper equipment and caution, one can travel anywhere."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , "Trust me, we won't need torches." , Knights fight for honor and mercenaries fight for gold. The militia fights for hearth and home. , "We lost our homes and our kin. We won't let those rotters take our future as well." , "Even when hope is but a small flame fighting the night, I will serve the absent king." , In a castle that prizes loyalty above all, the bond between knight and griffin is unmatched. , The Iroan Games award no medals. Athletes vie for a visit from Iroas, god of victory. , "I see something special in you—a bright ember that yearns to dance among the stars." , "It's not enough to surprise your opponent. You have to delight the crowd as well." , "Cloak me in mystery, hide my names from my enemies, and let me draw from the well of power."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , "My world is corrupted beyond cleansing. I must prevent this from happening to others."
—Karn , A great mirage, a dream of wings and silver. , Mirrodin's creator still lives, still shapes metal, and still commands world-shaking power. , Fascinated by the lore of ancient struggles, the archaeologist searches incessantly for remnants of an earlier, more powerful era. , Through years of study and training, the Blacksmiths of Argive became adept at reassembling the mangled remains of the strange, mechanical creatures abounding in their native land. , "We often bury our pasts, and then someone comes along and digs them up."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , "The Argivian University taught me two things: always look to the past, and never dismiss what appears useless."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , Sharpen your ears
—Elvish expression meaning "grow wiser" , After the rape of Argoth Forest during the rule of the artificers, the Pixies of Argoth bent their magic to more practical ends. , In Argoth, the shortest path between two points is the one the swine make. , Haunting cries we hear in our dreams As the forest dies, a death from machines. , undefined , "I'm not picky about what comes up, but the less decay, the better."
—Liliana Vess , He speaks directly into his supplicants' minds using fiery words that inflame their thoughts and incite their passions. , When opened, it erases entire landscapes from minds and maps. , "If you don't speak wolf, allow me to translate: 'One step closer and I'll rip out your throat.'"
—Arlinn Kord , No one in the Conclave acts alone. , "Don't laugh. It works." , War destroys more than just the land. War destroys hope. , The Abzan avoid extended supply lines by incorporating weapons stores into their battle formations. , "We prepare for the known with daggers, rations, rope, and pitons. But we also prepare for the unknown with billycat tails, pikku roots, hedron chips . . ." , Raksha watched as the goblins continued to pour onto the Razor Fields. "They just don't know when to stop, do they?" , The mysterious purpose of two of the rings had eluded Esper mages—until now. , We all must profit for peace to last.
—Mercadian saying , Were she not a judge, she'd win the division herself. , With skill and strength honed upon the prairie, Naxtil won his battles high above it. , Creatures displaced from time still turn up every year, stranded by the temporal disaster that once swept across Dominaria. , "Information equals profits. Our merchants sell it, or our pirates use it."
—Jefan, Talas ship captain , When an order for griffin barding comes in, blacksmiths prepare their forges for months of exacting work. They know griffins always detect imperfections and never haggle. , "I always charge a little extra to take on a pegasus. They fly like eagles, kick like mules, and hide like hermits."
—Tahli *en*-Dal, bounty hunter , Literally made for battle. , "If only our jails were as secure."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct , "When we of the Northern Verge claim a mount, no peasant's nag will do. It must be as strong as our virtue, and must join us of its own will."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge , Not all enormous beasts are quick to anger. , Wolf-riders of Selesnya apprentice from a young age. Each rider raises a wolf pup from birth to serve as a mount, hoping that one day the two will share the honor of guarding the Great Concourse. , Zhalfir's destiny rings in tempered steel.
—Armorer Guild maxim , "Keep your chainmail, warrior. I have my own form of protection."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , Hanna: "We must learn how they protect each other."
Mirri: "After they've done trying to kill us, all right?" , "The worst thing about being a mercenary for the Ebon Hand is having to wear a dead thrull."
—Ivra Jursdotter , With no flesh to tire or resolve to falter, the machines soon became the Academy's preferred trainers. , The Dimir agents watched from the shadows. "Eight hours, and I've yet to see him blink," Nefara hissed. "I suggest we find another way in." , From a distance the weapons look pristine, but in fact they are tarnished and dented, each as unique as the champion who carried it to battle. , "Guaranteed to leave your enemies sufficiently stabbed, bitten, cleaved, or exploded."
—Grezkrick's Emporium motto , "Anything we can do to hurt the Phyrexian invaders is worth dying for." , "Do not underestimate the power of many against one."
—Sidar Jabari , On the day of victory no one is tired. —Arab proverb , Sometimes death comes knocking. Sometimes it tears down the walls. , "The dreams of a child fulfilled: The wind on my brow, the air 'neath my feet."
—Arnjlot Olasson, Sky Mage , Bladehold houses a rogues' gallery filled with the living "statues" of the worst enemies of the Auriok. , Law is the voice of reason. , Law is the light of civilization. , "I would rather take my own head than be thwarted by a presumptuous wretch with a shield and a dream." , Charm and grace may hide a foul heart. , It's hard to be humble when the whole world is bite-size. , Archers from the Horizon Military Academy hone their skills by targeting pickpockets blocks away. , First the thunder, then the rain. , "It is impious to admit, but I do enjoy pirate blood. Something in the salty tang of it, the spice of rebellion." , Those who know the alleys and sewers of the Erdwal can disappear like smoke. , PRICELESS PIC PILFERED Painting Found Abandoned in Graveyard Merfolk Decry Wizards' Treatment , Dimir assassinations are choreographed like dance routines. Each challenge is anticipated and countered with graceful ease. , The first line of defense against Urza and Mishra, the Artifact Blast achieved widespread fame until an unlucky mage discovered it was useless on the devices the brothers had already created. , "From shards and splinters I call forth my living horde."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer , Any black mage could coax a Thraxodemon to inhabit a magical device. , The artificers of Kaladesh strive ceaselessly for perfection, progress, and the ultimate expression of elegance. , "Some treasures aren't worth finding, let alone stealing."
—Dack Fayden , Phyrexian or Mirran, most goblins stick to the job they know best. , Some seers read bones or entrails. Others just like to break things. , "I won't abandon the *Weatherlight*. My destiny is to serve at Jhoira's side. This 'illness' means I must trust my faith more and myself less." , His soul snared by an angel's curse, Crovax twisted heroism into its purest shadow. , A lawmage's runic script is an act of governance given form: legislation written directly onto the air itself. , "Let my ignominy build walls thicker than iron and stronger than darksteel."
—Thrun, the last troll , As his new wings lifted him high above Bant, Taric felt his earthly aspirations transform into heavenly resolve. , The bears wade into time rifts to feed. They do not fear the storms, and they are quick enough to snatch prey just as it blinks in or out of time. , "I'm not sure which impresses me most, its thoroughness or its intensity."
—Matoc, lavamancer , There was a dull thunder at the vanguard, then shocked cries in the midst of the column. Moments later, Takada, last of the rearguard, faced the kami alone. , "None will concede a place for us in this world. If it is not for us, neither shall it be for them. We rest not until they choke in its cold ashes."
—Illulia of Nighthearth , After his hands had crumbled away, leaving only wickedly sharp points, he decided his only purpose was war. , Cinders carry an ancestral grudge that makes them slow to trust and quick to retaliate. , "What you call decay, I call ripening. You'll gain no sustenance from this harvest."
—Kaervek , One offering to appease her on her arrival. Another to celebrate her departure. , When the Honden of Night's Reach began to crumble, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to haunt mortal dreams. , "Let no trace of the vampires' foulness remain." , The ashes of the dead mingle with the soil, and both become as one. , "All rivers eventually run to the sea. My job is to sort out who goes first."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, Memoirs of a Soldier , "Every nightmare is a caged bird that yearns to be set free."
—Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver , "Every dream is a doorway." , "Fear writhes and whispers in the shadows of your mind. It is the enemy you always knew would come."
—Ashiok , The Aurora had transformed her into a relentless force of destruction. , Its fiery paws make it easy to track, which is very useful when you want to go in exactly the opposite direction. , "If you work at sawing up carcasses, you notice how the joints fit, how the nerves are arrayed, and how the skin peels back."
—Ashnod, to Tawnos , This invention shows why Ashnod was feared by her troops as well as her foes. , Limited time offer. Void where prohibited. Limit one per purchase. Valid only in participating duels. This coupon is nontransferable and invalid if shattered, crumbled, detonated, pillaged, or otherwise disenchanted. Cash value less than 1/20 of a cent. Offer not valid in Quebec, Rhode Island, or where prohibited by law or the DCI. , Few remember that Ashnod's defilement of Terisiare's resources outstripped even that of her peers. , Ashnod found few willing to trade their humanity for the power she offered them. , "Smarter than death? Let's see you outsmart my mace, necromancer!" , "Omens lie in this early harvest's fruit."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , "My adopted children are loved no less."
—Pharika, god of affliction , "Even alone I outnumber you." , "Some aspire to be mighty like the lion or the hydra. I am the parasite that feeds on them all." , He killed out of hate, so now only hate sustains him. He sought immortality, so the gods gave it to him. , "Some poisons enter through the blood. Some are ingested. Some are inhaled. All ways through which mortals draw strength are paths for poison."
—Agathe, priest of Pharika , "This is how wars are won—not with armies of soldiers but with a single knife blade, artfully placed."
—Yurin, royal assassin , When Selesnya missionaries moved into the Shanav Quarter, they faced scorn, ridicule, and ultimately martyrdom. , A power vacuum for the Azorius. A keepsake for Vraska. , "The Simic offer a prize to any biomancer who can breed a krasis to match a griffin in the air. It's never been claimed."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant , When breaking someone's face once just isn't enough. , "Show them to Razia and then to the Azorius sky marshals. We could create a fine bidding war—enough to fund the final stages of Project Kraj."
—Momir Vig , There is always a toll to pay for passage. , With their factories long destroyed, some of Mishra's creations still toil in remote areas, endlessly performing and reperforming their last orders. , Who wants to see a picture of a big hairy ass? , Asses to ashes, Donkeys to dust. , "The hum of the universe is never off-key."
—Mystic elder , "The ravings of the mad are laced with eldritch knowledge." , "Healing is a gift the divine ones have shared with us. It is a sacred trust." , He scorns the heavy winter garb of lesser warriors, trusting his anger to keep him warm. , Atarka is worshipped and fed by her subjects at Ayagor, the Dragon's Bowl. , "Her hunger knows no limit. Left unchecked, she would feast on all of Tarkir."
—Yasova Dragonclaw , Isthay iecepay ofay avorflay exttay oesn'tday eallyray aysay anythingay. , On Dominaria, a scavenger. On Mirrodin, a predator. , It relishes old-fashioned family meals. , When the Erstwhile were unearthed from their tombs, they became a ready-made army for Vraska. , "My cats have taught me more about the sacred than anything in some old ruin." , The virtues of knighthood are best taught in the field. , "I will trade life for life with the insurgents. Our resources, unlike theirs, are limitless."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath , "The solution can hide for only so long."
—Urza , "I've never seen a world where aether weaves through every aspect of nature." , His arrows are fletched with feathers from the greatest of the winged dinosaurs. , Streams of gold and bright feathers flash in the orb, visions of past and future. , "This little critter can turn all of you to scrap in under thirty seconds! Come on, who wants to be the first to go? Try and stop me!" , "Skill, imagination, smarts: none of it matters unless you have the nerve to use it." , "Finally, a weapon the Boros can't confiscate!"
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue , When you have taught an automaton how to build others of its kind, it is a small step to make it build itself. , "If it would end this exile, my life is yours." , "There is no future save the one my master wills." , Within each empty skull, it seeks ways to preserve its own failing undeath. , Moonstones grant limited foresight but unlimited advantages. , The Stinkdrinker warren's hill of salvaged trinkets is large enough to cut a door in. , "None of your history books mention me?" laughed Daria. "They will now." , Every day, Order clerics contain as much of the Mirari's energy as possible, hoping to delay Otaria's demise. , "Although armor and auras can be similar, the brains required to use them are worlds apart."
—Zilan, Makindi auramancer , To some, the Tolarian sunrise was a blinding flash; to others, a lingering glow. , Jamuraa's rhystic mages treat magic as their garden, uprooting unwanted spells as bothersome weeds. , Kill a gnarlid with your first blow, or it'll cheerfully show you how it's done. , "It's not really stealing. It's more like extended borrowing." , "In memories, we can find our deepest reserves of strength." , "Consider not what the mask hides, but what it can reveal." , "Life can be found in all things, even things unnatural."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer , "Lies and deceit do yield results, but legitimate authority is the ultimate form of control."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror , Not all silences are easily broken. , Gaea forged her soldiers into self-wielding weapons that struck down all impurities. , Illusion steals reality from the unwise. , The auratog enjoys eating its wards. , Where Razia was aloof and untouchable, Aurelia is on the frontlines, calling for war. , The Auriok have learned through constant struggle that allies are more precious than water. , Mirrodin's deepest caverns conceal its brightest hopes. , Auriok soldiers craft their own weapons, forging a connection to the steel with each blow of the hammer. , "Give me a bit of steel and I'll deliver it into the hearts of my enemies." , All the loyalty of the Auriok with only a trace of their self-righteousness. , "Memnarch or the vedalken salvage most of the large machines, leaving us only scraps. Scraps are enough." , Everything in its path is either pushed aside or ground under. , They put their safety in his hands. He puts sharpened steel in theirs. , "Grant me loft. Grant me light. Grant me the accuracy I need to kill all who threaten Bladehold."
—Prayer to the Whitesun , "We are Mirrodin's children. We will reclaim her—one scrap at a time, if we have to." , "My grandfather knew enough spells to fill a hundred scrolls. Nowadays, if a spell cannot fight the levelers, it is not even taught to our young." , Each generation, a handful of Auriok girls are allowed to visit the Cave of Light. They return riding the wind and brandishing steel. , One aurochs may feed a village, but a herd will flatten it. , Many combatants at Valor's Reach wield glowing weapons to distract their enemies and delight the crowd. , Though a fierce fighter, its true value is that it inspires beleaguered forces. , Citizens are free to do as they wish, within the confines of the Consulate's laws. , The trainer awoke to begin the journey from the wurm's tail to its head. The sun was setting when she arrived. , undefined , The rustling of leaves and a passing shadow are a dryad's only trace. , "We must shake her limbs and rattle her brains."
—Grandmother Sengir , A golden helix streaked skyward from the Helvault. A thunderous explosion shattered the silver monolith and Avacyn emerged, free from her prison at last. , undefined , Moorlanders speak in awe of the priests' talent for arriving just in time to drive off the wicked things that prowl the ravished parish. , "Avacyn's protection is everywhere. From the holy church to the sacred glade, all that we see is under her blessed watch." , "The pass was completely blocked by the avalanche; we're forced to turn back. Nevertheless, we've gone farther and seen more than any before us."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "Hold the high ground, then bring it to your enemy."
—Surrak, khan of the Temur , Designed by Penny Arcade , Souls and steel, the essence of Mirrodin. Memnarch lacks one but has an abundance of the other. , Waste follows want. , Such is the power of Rakdos that even his shadow takes on a cruel life of its own. , In their most desperate hour, the elves of Llanowar had one song left to sing. , "Diplomacy has solved nothing. Only bloodspill can end this now. Call forth the warbringer."
—Basandra, Battle Seraph , It exemplifies the ideals of the Dromoka: strength, unity, and honor. , Aimed by the eyes of eagles, their arrows never miss the mark. , "I have seen the future. It does not include you." , When the shadow of the aven falls across the battlefield, hope rises in the hearts of the soldiers. , He represents what little pride the Order has left. , "At the Reapportionment, Eagle begged to be human. The Ancestor granted half that prayer."
—Nomad myth , Their grieving faces tell far more than a list of casualties ever could. , "I've never seen the firemane angels so anxious."
—Tajic , His enemies' trickery and deceit only fuel his righteous anger. , The same spears that catch their food today will defend their homes tomorrow. , "It was too fast, even for our veteran archers. They might as well have been blowing it kisses."
—Vulok, elvish archer , Just as each added feather steadies the wing, so does the flock grow stronger with each new member. , "I cover the land with blankets and it sleeps." , An aven's gear is enchanted to avoid weighing them down during aerial maneuvers. , "Forgive the theft. Punish the deception."
—Alcarus, Selesnya archer , "I teach the cubs how to kill the two-legs quickly, and why it's best for the pride." , "If the skies are our only refuge, I will see all of us take wing." , "The only question we need to ask is how best to fulfill the will of the God-Pharaoh." , "This storm will calm. We must believe that." , Redeemers rise with the sun, and the spirits of the people rise with them. , "Our best chance against the Eternals will be tactics they've never seen and styles they've never trained in." , "My flock flew from a distant continent ruined by cataclysm and war. Benalia gave us shelter to end our exodus." , "We do not hide from the dragons that pretend to rule the skies. If we did, the dragons would become our rulers, and our way of life would be lost." , In a world still pained from burns, some are born already scarred. , "Every question has a proper answer. Every soul has a proper place." , When the meek charge into battle, courage becomes infectious. , The aven are admired, for they are able to fly with the dragons. , "The bird wore the form of a man, bereft of filigree. Why do the Texts not speak of it?"
—Belator of Esper , The very skies seethe with the aven's hatred for the Cabal. , "My skill sharpens with each beat of my wings." , "The tiniest ripple tells a story ten fathoms deep." , "Nature is a dance. Master it, and the world can keep no secrets from you." , Today it flies with the flock. Tomorrow it may wake to find them gone, its body in an unfamiliar form. , Pilots take crippled skyships to the Aviaries, trusting Ghirapur's most talented mechanics to get them back into the air. , "They say that perfection is unattainable, but they say that about flight too." , "All can't be lost. Nissa has shown me that." , "Maybe we can trap them with bait," thought Tahngarth, eyeing Squee. , "The fools have done it."
—Tishana , The druids of Mazar treat each seedcone with respect for the warrior it will become. , "There are times when destiny calls forth a people and demands an action. *Now* is the time. *We* are the people. *This* is our action. Charge!"
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , The Eternal armies advanced on Vitu-Ghazi. At Nissa's command, Vitu-Ghazi advanced on them. , The ground erupted in time with the hedron's thrum, a dirge of the last days. , Some days you stand to greet the horizon. Other days the horizon stands to greet you. , When Temur warriors enter the battle trance known as "awakening the bear," they lose all sense of enemy or friend, seeing only threats to the wilderness. , In preparation for the conflict all foresaw, the Golgari called upon an army that had slept for millennia beneath the city. , When the guilds cooperate, the guildless celebrate their peaceful society. When the guilds clash, the guildless just try to keep out of the way. , "At the core of all power is raw passion."Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , Stunned by the mere presence of the leonin kha, the nim raider quickly fell to its knees. , "Imagine a gigantic pine cone that's extremely territorial and always in a foul mood."
—Zhosmir, urban huntmaster , Only a worthy few are permitted within the sentient forest known as Axebane. , "When the spires have burned and the cobblestones are dust, he will take his rightful place as king of the wilds."
—Kirce, Axebane guardian , The angriest of giants are often the most skillful weaponsmiths. Their grudges fuel endless sessions at the forge, all the while growling ferociously to themselves. , The Church of Dusk teaches there is no gain without loss, no triumph without sacrifice, no drink of exquisite crimson without a dying gasp. , Mourning shifts seamlessly to celebration as she chooses her next suitor. , Serra's gift to her people: a symbol of faith and hope. , "I would say that our bureaucrats are no better than vipers—but I shouldn't insult the vipers."
—Murat, death speaker , "A renegade rallying the rabble does not a true crusader make."
—Irini Sengir , "Tread the roads of righteousness, Murat, lest you lose your way and be consumed."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor , Born from the oldest red cedar, nursed on the sap of the tallest spruce, coronated under the mightiest pine. , Ayula's runic clawmarks ensure her territories are never left defenseless. , Before Shinka's walls were built, before the torii at Okina stood, she was there, tall and proud against the sky, and she will be there long after they have fallen into dust. , "Choices belong to those with the luxuries of time and distance. We have neither. I recommend we proceed with the plan to destroy all shrines of the kami."
—Lady Azami, letter to Sensei Hisoka , "A vizier's dish, best served drenched in honey and almonds."
—Suq'Ata royal recipe , In her single metasphere are bound the records of every Ætheric transaction since the time of Azor. , "You have the right to remain silent. Mostly because I tire of your excuses." , "The rules of logic and order have already made the choice for you."
—Isperia , Its three sides represent the Sova, judges and arbitrators; the Jelenn, scribes and elocutors; and the Lyev, lawmages and enforcers. , With a steady diet of lawbreakers, Azorius griffins inevitably develop a resistance to the contraband magic that taints much of their prey. , "If the populace fears our authority, then I'd say we have an appropriately sensible populace."
—Dovin Baan , "As peace should be—gentle yet unstoppable."
—Augustin IV , "Your potential to commit a crime warrants further investigation." , "The higher the mind soars, the greater its understanding of the law."
—Isperia , Thanks to the magic of his Writ of Passage, alms beasts lumbered aside, anarchs bowed their heads, and even Rakdos acrobats rolled their spikewheels out of his way. , "Mandatory lockets enable the tracking of all Senate personnel for improved security and efficiency."
—Dovin Baan , Azorius military tactics, like their legal tactics, capitalize on delay and nullification. , The maze-like design embodies the core of Azorius law—strict structure designed to test wills and stall change. , "These new thopters are all well and good, but four eyes are better than none." , undefined , "Never get too attached to a weapon. You must allow a better one to find its way to you." , "I never give odds on my own fights. Unless, of course, you want to bet *against* me . . ." , More so than "storm" or "pirate," "drake" is the word a sailor least wants to hear. , "We draw our power from the infinite ocean of the mind, where all manner of things can be conceived."
—Azure creed , "I do not miss Jukai Forest. It is not my home. My home is Kamigawa, its people my family. Wherever I set my pack and rest my head, I am home." , Memories burn with the brightest flames. , "How can you be sure you pierced its heart? Do you even know where its heart is?"
—Trundan, Indatha poacher , On Innistrad, death is just a career change. , Darigaaz decided his foe would be more useful as a weapon. , Some things are better left unknown. , "A ruler wears a crown while the rest of us wear hats, but which would you rather have when it's raining?"
—Barrin, *Principia* , There will always be those who presume to improve nature, or dare to befoul it. And nature will always have a response. , "In the market for an alternative, friend?" , Paranoia has driven some Kessig communities to hunt down anything—and anyone—that travels through their woods. , He wanders the land in search of Good Ass. , There are still places where a smile and a handshake are all you need to seal a deal. , There's no prepared like overprepared. , "The walls of Argive were built by a peaceful dynastic union that has guarded us against war for fifteen centuries. The lesson is clear." , "My secret ingredient? Well, I can't tell you that. But here's a hint. It's not love." , "Those who fling spells too quickly should have reason to regret it."
—Baki, Wizard Attendant , undefined , Fast and lethal, with a penchant for the weak and infirm. , "To empty your mind is to fill your grave."
—Lat-Nam teaching , "What weapon will you bear against one who's mastered them all?" , "From the snowy slopes of Kaelor, To the canyons of Bandu, We drink and fight and feast and die As we were born to do."
—Balduvian tavern song , "They're a hardy bunch, but I'd still bet that they just slept through the worst of the cold times."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "The very lands of Balduvia are alive."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight , "Whether frozen or fertile, the land is our ally. It awaits the call to battle." , "We earn no medals and fight for no titles. Blood is proof of our victory."
—Lovisa Coldeyes , "Let your heartbeat be the thunder in the valley. Let your swords be the lightning on the peaks."
—Lothar Lovisason, Balduvian chieftain , "Those mewling Barbarians will cower before my righteous steel!"
—General Varchild , If it comes for you, die boldly or die swiftly—for die you will. , "Not all in our crop deserve the afterlife. We must leave the unworthy behind, Samut."
—Djeru, initiate of Tah crop , "As with any malevolent being, the trick is knowing how long you can afford to keep it in your service."
—Liliana Vess , "Though there is little to be learned from your dust and stones, I shall wring them dry nevertheless." , Its beak rends flesh and bone, exposing the tender marrow of dream. , The perfect antidote for a tightly packed formation. , The most frightening storms are those not woven by nature's hand. , The market festival turned out to be the high point of Jaffy's visit. , "Merchants and politicians differ only in name."
—Queen Marchesa , A kithkin's worst enemy is solitude. , No matter how large or small, fierce or fleeting, the kithkin have a trap for it. , Only wool from the side of the springjack turned most often to the sun can be woven into kithkin battle standards. Jackherds record every movement of their woolly-jacks until shearing. , "Not all armies enjoyed the services of a medic. For them, Balm of Restoration was that much more valuable."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I* , A baloth only cares about the many things it eats and the few things that eat it. , "Humans use pigs to hunt for mushrooms, don't they? It's like that."
—Harak, Malakir bloodwitch , A young baloth channels its energy into playful destructiveness. Over time, it becomes less playful but no less destructive. , Its insatiable hunger quickly depletes a region of prey. It must migrate from place to place to feed its massive bulk. , "Power, gold, crackers—every bird has its price."
—Chainer, dementia master , It helps to have an extra direction in which to run. , He remembers enough of his life to weep for what he has lost. , "I like to think of him as concentrated barbarian."
—Kamahl, pit fighter , Takara shook with guilt. She knew the last image her father had seen was her sword flashing toward him. , In times of peril, the vision the ancient paruns had for their city comes into focus. , "I'm in the field of procurement, and business is good. The guilds want all kinds of maps and relics these days, though what they want them for I'm not quite sure." , For Sarkhan Vol, the dragon is the purest expression of life's savage splendor. , "Ah, again it does not bode well for you." , "I wish I could train a pack of them for hunting in the undercity. But I'd never dare turn my back, and I hate to think what I'd have to feed them."
—Zhosmir, urban huntmaster , The continent of Bala Ged was ravaged by massive Eldrazi of Ulamog's lineage, its lush jungles and cascading rivers reduced to dust. , It sees shaped stone and carved wood as mutilations. , Some angels protect the meek and innocent. Others seek out and smite evil wherever it lurks. , The consuming undeath of Grixis terrifies the survivors of Vithia, but its fauna is just as fearsome. , "If I die, it will not be alone." , "Oathbreaker, I cast you out!" , Suddenly he realized that everything was connected by invisible strings, strings that could be pulled—or cut. , The Champion reached for a stone, and Heliod placed the sun into her hand.
—*The Theriad* , "Unworthy of consecration."
—Axsh, lesser cenobite , "Your spirits can rest in peace, for your debts are paid." , After the destruction of the Helvault, fearful mobs soon became fearless battalions. , Some say Banshees are the hounds of Death, baying to herd their prey into the arms of their master. , "A night attack will be easy. We'll make an air raid over the Akrasan border. Just get me some flint to light the war torches." , Bant is a world where death and chaos hold no sway. , Bant's hearts are as pure as its air and as bright as its skies. , "We must spread Bant's light before we are shadowed over." , Soldiers who fought through Grixis learned to hit first, recite the prayer of Asha later. , "The echo of silence is music to my ears." , "Get out of my way." , "Out of my way!" , "Barbarian tribes with their rulers are inferior to Chinese states without them."
—Confucius, *The Analects* (trans. Lau) , Only twenty years after the Sima clan united the empire, invading barbarians divided it again. , "I once saw a single barbarian charge a band of twenty nomads. I've seen some crazy ones, too."
—Nomad sentry , "We offer power to anyone willing to take it. Sadly, few are unburdened enough by their prejudices to accept."
—Cabal surgeon , "Riftcutters are suicidal anarchists, waving those lightning axes around so much that the walls are as likely to fall as their foes."
—Heruj, Selesnya initiate , Unpredictable in the extreme, these carnivorous apes will prey even upon their own kind. , "The Mwonvuli Jungle has given the darkness teeth for tearing the gift of life from the weak."
—Jolrael , "One need only look at the inhabitants of this world to see that they are forged halfway to perfection. All they need is a whisper of the Glorious Word."
—Urabrask the Hidden , Wherever they went, the Keldons transformed the land into a weapon. , Every creature on Mirrodin is a lightning rod. , Fervid shamans willingly submit to shockers in hopes of glimpsing the fortunes of the future. , Spans of spines leapt from one sliver to the next, forming a deadly hedge around the Weatherlight. , A steel snake with ten thousand teeth. , In its lair lies a carpet of bones. , Bargaining with a goblin is like trading with a child; both believe they already own everything. , Although it looks like a game, business around the table is deadly serious. , The giant had heard of locks, but he had yet to discover a door he couldn't open. , "Don't stop till your horns come out their back." , Anywhere else they would be hunted for their skins, but in Wirewood, they are safe. , He is devious and cunning, in both appearance and deed. Beware the Warbeard, for this brute bites as well as he barks! , For a dozen years the Cage had held Lord Ith, but as the Pretender Mairsil's power weakened, so did the bars. , "Beast. Defiler. The source of all my pain."
—Ihsan's Shade , "Poor little sun-dweller out past curfew. And to think, you might have survived if it wasn't so close to suppertime." , Crude tactics can be effective nonetheless. , Goblin generals don't distinguish between troops and ammunition. , The elves had devised countless strategies to combat Memnarch's war machines, but they had no idea what to do when one was *thrown* at them. , Terrible fury. Excellent aim. , "The trollish game of push-fall inspired this impressive tactic."
—Sidar Jabari , "The only perfect world is an empty world, with no one to sin or wage war."
—Tarran, magus of the disk , "Boggarts are easy to get around. Just toss some mutton in another direction. Giants are a little harder. You have to be quick to avoid their steps. Cinders are the difficult ones, but even they have fears to be exploited." , His dreams are filled with noxious powders and clinking vials. , "The Consulate sought to crush us. Let's give them a taste of their own medicine."
—Venkat Dasai, renegade commander , "They cast wards, thinking it will protect them, but the biggest monsters find a way through."
—Kinnan, bonder prodigy , The Dimir rarely make statements, but when they do, the message is clear. , "Knowledge is no more expensive than ignorance, and at least as satisfying."
—Barrin, master wizard , "Only vengeance matters now."
—Barrin , "There is no age at which you stop learning." , "They killed my family to deny me a future. They fed on my ancestors to deny me a past."
—Crovax , "Taste the sweetness, breath for breath. Keep the balance, death for death."
—Barrow witch incantation , Thundering down from Hammerheim, no foe could slow Bartel's charge. , At the market, no one heeded Hilda's frantic mooing. The fae curse was turning out even worse than she had feared. , "We must all make sacrifices for the good of Innistrad."
—Sorin Markov , "It may not look like much, but it's a good old door with strong wards. It'll hold."
—Olgard of the Skiltfolk , At night, bats will feast on whatever is drawn to lanterns and streetlights. , "Fascinating . . . These creatures display the paradox of tenacity and purposed self-destruction I have sought to breed into my thrulls."
—Endrek Sahr, master breeder , Initially bred for sacrifice, the thrulls eventually turned on their masters, the Order of the Ebon Hand, with gruesome results.
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II* , "Why listen to the mumblings of wizards when the lash speaks true?" , A new dawn, a new adventure. , You can hear their tolling only when your debt is due. , "None may pass . . . for free." , A screech in the night is all it takes for Orzhov debtors to clutch at their coin purses. , During their endless travels, the mages of the Goma Fada caravan have learned ways to harness both life and death. , Basri carries on his god's legacy, spreading her teachings throughout the Multiverse. , "As long as we survive, we can rebuild."
—Basri Ket , "The will to fight and act as one is not limited to a single world. Oketra's teachings are universal."
—Basri Ket , Setessan warriors of Bassara Tower are known for their guerrilla tactics and skill with the bow. Interlopers into the Nessian Wood do not get far. , Headquartered at the Bastion of the Honorable, the soldiers of Ghirapur are charged with the task of keeping peace in the city. , "This armor transcends the limitations of mere flesh and bone." , The Consulate's automaton bank contains only the most impressive specimens. , Lives taken are lives not easily forgotten. , "As long as I stand, so will your cause." , The scent of cooked flesh lingers in the charred landscape of Tarkir. , "Truth shines even in darkness. Those who march on the side of truth walk always in righteous light." , "The Goblins would kill to get ahold of this one."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , "With me! Break this line and the rest will fall!" , A dent marks every year of service, and it has as much rust as glory. , Novice shopkeeps spend hours deciding how best to display their wares. Veterans focus on portability. , Their skeletons can be found all over Skirk Ridge, tangled in each other's horns. , By the time Mishra was defeated, no mage was foolish enough to rely heavily on walls. , Covered with hard shell-like plates, these slivers burrow through solid rock to carve out new nests for their hives. , "This is bigger than you. All of you."
—Tezzeret , Every time he returns from battle unscathed, he feels a tinge of disappointment. , "In the thick of battle, you must keep your wits about you. Yelling a lot helps, too."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , "Death never stops to rest. Neither can we." , "Welcome to the Legion. You saved a district—now let's go save the world." , Eagles make fine mounts, but they're too proud to carry anyone for long. , "One day you, too, shall drink the blood of your foes. It is something to look forward to."
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain , Krushoks clear debris from fertile fields, fallow fields, and battlefields. , Mimics don't need perfect disguises. They need only the perfect victims: the naive, the young, or the poor of sight. , Not content to nudge vases and chill drawing rooms, some geists muster spectral armies to claw at the hearts of the living. , "I would gladly die for the forest, but I'm much better at killing for it." , "Murasan hurdas were too aggressive to tolerate a harness, so we put them on guard duty. Now the bandits can't get within spitting distance of us."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad , "A church is just wood and walls. A congregation is the faithful praising the angels."
—Kolman, elder of Gatstaf , "I fought fiercely, bravely, and without mercy. Had I not struck down my captain in the heat of battle, I might have become a hero instead of an outcast." , "There is elegance in all the Ojutai do—even their killing."
—Kirada, Silumgar enforcer , There is no loftier ambition than the pursuit of knowledge. , "I will build no sanctuaries. The safety you seek can be won only by the sword."
—Yannash, outpost builder , The shaman rattles not to inspire a battle fury but to drown out the shrieks of those fleeing the Eldrazi. , All sounds harmonize with the Worldsoul. , "One emitted a strange series of buzzing clicks and guttural commands, then clawed arms emerged from all of them. Is there no limit to their adaptations?"
—Hastric, Thunian scout , The goblins made an unruly pile with military precision. , The pits swallow the weak as predators swallow prey. , "I do not heal. Healing means that the pain has already been felt. To stop suffering, one must prevent the world's wounds altogether." , Experience is a good teacher, not a kind one. , It's never good to walk into an ambush, but with the right spell you might walk out again. , "Wear the falcon's feathers in your hair— be fast as the falcon, bright as the Sun."
—"Rise on Wings," Zhalfirin song , "Like a sugar stick with wings!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand , The Hauler's Collective wields great influence over the Ravnican merchant class. Without it, little moves in the city. , He traded a lamp for a scepter, a scepter for a ruby, and the ruby for a simple rug. , "No need for a hurda? How about these maps to recently discovered tombs? Or these vials of invisible potion? Very fancy . . ." , When its smoky plumes light Naya's sky, every creature from the smallest pip fawn to the largest rannet heeds the warning. , A chorus of life heralds the arrival of Mirrodin's final sun. , "We all borrowed life from the Ancestor to exist in this world. Today, I repay that debt." , The Great Furnace's blessing is a spectacular sight, but the best view comes at a high cost. , The cave floods with light. A thousand rays shine forth and meld into one. , To look into its light is to meet the gaze of history. , "The light of my master's guidance traverses all boundaries, even those separating life and death." , The Izzet love replicating results. , Every little cub has its mother's teeth to guard it.
—Elvish saying , To hold the heavens from the earth is no curse, but a titanic responsibility. , "Nature is the endless dance between life and death."
—Seton, centaur druid , "The Sultai came hunting for a bear hide. Now I have a belt of naga skin, and my friend has a full belly." , "They come because I call. They stay because I listen." , "Surely we could tame something besides hurdas and pillarfield oxen!"
—Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper , "A stunning example of the breed! Flawless plating, ruthlessly efficient death stroke, and an excellent drool shimmer." , Though it was built as an instrument of labor, it wasn't long before it became an instrument of war. , Bogardan is a land as volatile as the creatures who live there. , "The Beast Walkers do a great service to Aysen. As humans or as beasts, their heart is yet to Serra true."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor , "The tiniest mouse speaks louder to me than all the festival crowds on Tin Street." , "Monsters dwell in every heart. We only think civilization tames them." ―Euphemia, Nexus watcher , The foyer is littered with the coins it demands but can no longer hold. , "It's easy to get taken in by the spectacle, to enjoy a bit of naughty amusement. But make no mistake: the Cult of Rakdos is a danger."
—Tajic , The generals were dead. The battle plans were forgotten. It was everyone for themselves. , Busy as a bumblebee, blistered as a goblin.
—Alaborn saying , Whether trained, ridden, or eaten, few goblin military innovations have rivaled the bug. , "When the Simic say to take command of your life, we don't mean just your career."
—Vorel of the Hull Clade , "When the rampaging kami at Reito had crushed the opposing militia, swarms of minor kami swept over the battlefield to consume all that remained."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , The trick to talking sense into Keldons is getting them to hold still. , "Come, let me free you of the tyranny of thought." , "Mine is an insatiable god, with appetites as magnificent as the jungle itself." , Those who worship the great gargantuans could hardly be expected to fight with a subtle weapon. , It does no good to bar the gate when the enemy is already inside. , There is power in the abyss, in blackness more profound than the darkest dreams. , "Those who wish to become evincar must first cast off the shackles of compassion." , It protects her from the ravages of Phyrexia and the savages of Rath. , Long and powerful, these birds were used to carry messages to and from the evincar. , The fight will continue on a new battlefield. , Locthwain knights take pride in being the last ones standing in a fight or on a dance floor. , Predators try to separate the young, old, or injured from the rest of the herd. The alternative is crushing defeat. , "The slivers became adept at provoking a fear response in other species."
—Hastric, Thunian scout , "Whiptails can sense a traveler's footsteps from a great distance. Measuring that distance has been . . . difficult."
—Jalun, Affa sentry , Its roaring challenge is punctuated by the slam of its tail on the earth, rousing the herds of the plains. , "Their two-tone vocalization contains a whistle and a roar. Both mean get away."
—Vivien Reid , As the price of wood and coal rose, smiths found creative ways to keep their forges burning. , Nomad and Nantuko, eagle and elephant; all the birds and beasts are charmed by his quiet dignity. , Sometimes a gentle slipper can travel where an armored boot's been denied. , "My people swore to protect Benalia to the end. It is battered, but yet stands, as do we." , The detailed dispatch could be summarized in four words: "Time is running out." , Benalia has a complex caste system that changes with the lunar year. No matter what the season, the only caste that cannot be attained by either heredity or money is that of the hero. , "The true measure of all heroes is not what they achieve, but who they inspire."
—*Triumph of Gerrard* , "My favorite part of getting into the infantry was getting out again."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , "We called them 'armored lightning.'"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , "Some aspire to climb the mountain of Honor. The Benalish are born upon its peak, and from there ascend among the stars."
—*History of Benalia* , "These horn-haters say no gods but theirs exist. I say let him find out for himself—right now!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight* , "I'm up here. You're down there. Now who's the lower life form?" , "One day I will rest and join my comrades in the afterlife, but not while scum like you still sully this world." , Some akki thought of Ben-Ben as a kami of trickery in disguise. They hunted for him in the maze of warrens, often falling prey to his traps. , Though buried and muffled, nature's whisper still called to Nissa. , It falls to the gods to help all become worthy of the afterlife. , Although the door is flimsy and the lock pathetically small, Josuri's family never fears the night outside. , "My destiny is to save others so their destinies may be achieved." , The best use for a unicorn's horn is to adorn a unicorn.
—Femeref adage , The sea has many secrets, but some are too big to be kept. , "I am my life's work." , "In all my years I've only met one mage who successfully trapped a djinn—and none who tried and failed."
—Talibah, embermage , The rising oceans brought new lakes—and new terrors—to Terisiare. The Explorers found their ancient enemies spawning everywhere. , "Some fates you can see coming for you, plain as day, and there's nothing you can do about them."
—Callaphe the mariner , "On my death, I give you this treasure: the knowledge that life is hard, yet too soon past."
—Dal funeral rite , Grief is a razor that slices the soul. , They take a blood oath to die in battle. So far none have failed to fulfill the promise. , "Atarka's people starve while she feasts upon the bounty of their hunts. They must conquer ever more lands just for the sake of their own subsistence."
—Arel, Unseen Whisperer , "The harder we press forward, the harder Krosa pushes us back."
—Aven scout , Those who hear her go mad with inspiration. , The whitest robes stain best. , "My battle cry reaches ears far keener than yours."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter , "Sometimes a burden can be borne only on the shoulders of a willing enemy."
—Suq'Ata aphorism , "Teferi snapped his fingers, and the viashino started clucking like a chicken. Silly, yes, but exactly the thing we needed to break the stifling tension."
—Jhoira, master artificer , undefined , "It was big. Really, really big. No, bigger No, more. Look, we're talking krakens and , than that. Even bigger. Keep going. More. dreadnoughts for jewelry. It was *big*!"
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight , The wills of mortals shift as the tide ebbs and flows. , Not an arrow loosed, javelin thrown, nor sword raised. None were needed. , "The two youths argued and tempers flared. One youth opened his mouth to utter a vile curse, but what he spat out instead was a kami of poison and filth."
—Sensei Golden-Tail , "The battlefield is cluttered enough. Be still."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer , A crash of rhinos in my head
—Femeref expression meaning "a severe head pain" , "What I want, I take."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage , What the gods decree, the mummies enforce. , There was a farmer, had a hound . . . , "To survive exceptional times we must adapt by exceptional means."
—Vannifar , "Look beyond, to the vascular awareness that all life is a map to greater knowledge."
—Momir Vig, *Biomancy*, vol. I , "A regression to ancient forms? A glimpse of future evolutions? Or a fleeting alteration of the present?"
—Vorel of the Hull Clade , "I have seen life's purpose, and now it is my own."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte , "It's all right if you change your mind. There's always a chance we can rearrange parts later."
—Zija, Simic mutationist , He tired of his fellow researchers and their useless prattling, so he decided to make a network of scholars with whom he could carry a conversation. , "Four things that never meet do here unite
To shed my blood and to ravage my heart,
A radiant brow and tresses that beguile
And rosy cheeks and a glittering smile."
—The Arabian Nights, trans. Haddawy , "The gods used their feathers to paint all the colors of the world."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur Forest , Changelings can't remember where they came from. They just know it wasn't a cradle. , "In the death of the foe lies the resurrection of the faithful." , "They shall give us all they have as penance for their resistance. Their ships. Their goods. Their rebellious blood." , "Within every angel is a spirit of light that will fight as long as there is darkness." , Vampires, the noble class of old Torrezon, are guided by their dual loyalties to church and crown. , On Innistrad, it is seldom wrong to stay indoors. , A chain of lies as strong as steel. , "The vizier of poisons teaches an unconventional kind of strength." , In Lorwyn's brief evenings, the sun pauses at the horizon long enough for a certain species of violet to bloom with the fragrance of mischief. , "Remember, brother, the eyes are always vulnerable."
"I never forgot." , "Here you lie then, Ugin. The corpses of worlds will join you in the tomb."
—Sorin Markov , It spilled the blood of one elder dragon. In Gideon's hands, it may yet taste another's. , undefined , "The Baron's drivers are also driven."
—Chandler , Its last life is spent tormenting your dreams. , Where the Oxidda Chain mingles with the Mephidross, oil-suffused metal crumbles away, leaving walls of blackened bones. , "Bitten? Save time, amputate now."
—Lephar, loxodon surgeon , Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose. You don't ask why a plague spreads or a field burns. Don't ask why I fight. , The Blacklances travel deep into the wilds, sometimes for years at a time, in search of the lost Cauldron of Eternity. , In addition to killing peasants, punishing subordinates, and raising an army of nightmares, Braids somehow found time for her favorite hobby: petty extortion. , Phenax promised the newly dead souls they would be spared from Erebos. In this, he did not lie. , It absorbs the pain of other treefolk, which leaves it bitter, yet addicted to the sensation of agony. , "Under the suns, Mirrodin kneels and begs us for perfection."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault , Slivers can turn a last stand into a stunning victory. , The Wanderer walks many paths. Her blade travels only one. , "One knife, two knives, three knives, four—which will drop you to the floor?" , Forged from the rubble of the Helvault. , Lacking trained pterons, the Auriok had to rely on other measures to gain the upper hand in the skies. , The Mirran partisans created hundreds of patrol sentinels to divert Phyrexian assaults from the Tangle. , The new model has improved aerodynamics but introduced a few glitches in the targeting system. , "Watch carefully. The gap between death and victory is thinner than your blade." , After breaking free from the Riptide Project, the slivers quickly adapted to life on Otaria—much to the dismay of life on Otaria. , "The changing kind suffers as we do. We must join as one to quench our tyrants!" , "Flesh is a betrayal of the self." , Deathbellow Canyon is home to minotaurs and many other creatures that share a love for the taste of human flesh. , A shadow of life chasing a husk of glory. , "Before armor, there was bark. Before blades, there were thorns."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer , The massive Argivian attack on their rooted kindred was a declaration of war to the treefolk. , "Kaervek imprisoned Mangara out of jealousy, but he taints Jamuraa simply out of spite."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , "Holy places are no longer sanctuary from death, and death is no longer sanctuary from anything."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar , "Don't get up. I'll show myself out." , "Encase yourself in the most elaborate armor, and cower behind the heaviest shield. I would hate for you to feel helpless."
—Korig the Ruiner , Ral Zarek's brainstorms bring actual thunder and lightning. , "I'll leave subtlety to the rich." , Fire never dies alone. , A true Boros commando only calls for reinforcements so they can clean up the mess. , "Through the haze of battle I saw the glint of sun on golden mane, the sheen of glory clad in mail, and I dropped my sword and wept at the idiocy of war."
—Dravin, Gruul deserter , "This can't be Jamuraa. We could not have failed her this badly . . . ." , It tears the flesh from your bones and then swallows the ash with its fiery maw. , "No shadow remains for you to hide in."
—Caparocti Sunborn , Barbarians equate courage with the ability to endure pain. , "Don't ask me what to do if you miss. They're stingdrakes. Don't miss."
—Orthion, Lavabrink captain , As the shadow of the Mephidross spread over the Tangle, the vampires' territory expanded. , Enchanted by mage-smiths and blessed by priests, Benalish windows let in light and cast out darkness. , "He spoke with the tongue of Angels; we fought with the strength of lions."
—Handel, infantry soldier , Even an enemy is a valuable resource. , Not all heroes die in armor. , "The fourth wind of ascension is Anointer, deifying the worthy."
—*Keld Triumphant* , "Out there, there are spirits, but here, there is wine."
—Blessing for the bounty of Kjeld , "Virtue can't survive without strength."
—Ardanna of the Angelic Council , "My heart is not mine, it is Belzenlok's. All hearts are his, and all blood."
—"Rite of Belzenlok" , "Before the first stone was laid or the first elf-child born, the power of the nephilim was gathering. Let that power be spread by my hands." , Leaf and soul alike wither at its touch. , Whenever it walks, famine follows behind. , "Your flesh is unprepared for my gifts." , "Urabrask may suspect our surveillance, but he cannot stop it."
—Avaricta, Gitaxian sective , Amonkhet's dual suns don't allow for the darkness of night, so bats are most active under the gloom of the frequent sandstorms. , Once, water ran here. Now only dust and ash fall from the clifftops. , "We came to a place where the skin of Zendikar was peeled back and its bones lay bare to the sky."
—Greenweaver Mina , The land is dying, but it will not go peacefully. , "When a limb is gangrenous, you cut it off. This is no different."
—Greenweaver Mina , It withers fruit and flesh alike. , Its venom drips with Phyrexia's hate. , While the smell of burning flesh is common in Grixis, the odor of smoldering brain matter is a rare treat. , Its scars cut deeper than its blade. , "See the beauty in death: the clean white bones lying in the fertile soil and the brightly colored moonglove sprouting from the fell earth." , One croaked sermon spreads propaganda and plague. , "Peril is in the eye of the beholder. At least, if your aim is good."
—Jaya Ballard , It shuns everything except its next meal. , "Tell me . . . have you ever sung the Song of Blood?"
—Purraj of Urborg , "Their eyes will shrivel and blacken before faith's true light." , "Zendikar's true gods have risen. Whether in reverence or agony, all the world will kneel."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims , "I see you, shiny soldiers, but you won't see me." , An angel's sword impales only the body; her righteousness penetrates the soul. , "I carry the light of truth. Do not pity those it blinds, for they never had eyes to see." , "We thank the souleaters for inscribing our souls with subservience, to reinforce the sacred order."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude , "The stronger our enemies seem, the more vulnerable they are."
—Sultai secret , By the time your knees have worn through your robe, you may have begun to learn your place." , "I think he sees more than he lets on."
—Gerrard , Among the solitude-loving giantkind, teamwork is unusual. But he appreciates hearing the occasional "Swing down and to your left." , "I can post only the most honorable and strong-willed samurai to defend your stronghold. I have seen what can happen to lesser men."
—General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda , "Don't look at it! Maybe it'll go away!"
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician , Power begets power. , The vedalken embed such urns in their living artifact creations. , When dictated by blinkmoth migratory patterns, clouds of tiny lights well up from Mirrodin's core. , Warriors of the Rip Clan wear their beetle-acid scars proudly, even modifying clothing and armor to better display the trophy. , Azorius lawmages would like to outlaw the creation of weirds, but first they'd have to settle their long-standing debate on how to classify them. , "Avoid anything that scuttles, scrabbles, or shambles."
—Opar, veteran guide , I live without food, stand without leg, wound without force, and am harder to fight than to kill. What am I?
—Femeref riddle , Any kithkin smith would love to catch a dieflyn for her kiln, relieving her of ever having to gather fuel again. , A blisterpod's corpse is a scion's cradle. , "Ah, we have a critic."
—Orthion, Lavabrink captain , A productive warren requires a good deal of prodding. , Alarans commemorated its appearances with new holidays bearing names like the Great Cataclysm and the Fall of Ilson Gate. , "Fools wear armor against it as if the worst it could take is your blood."
—Gavi, nest warden , The sound of Vadrok's gigantic wings is ominous. But the true terror is when they fall silent. , Students who had seen Rayne argue with Urza were certain she had summoned it to make him seem warmer by comparison. , "I need to get back to Mercadia City," said Sisay. "We can get you there," the vizier answered. "Easily." , Vendors hung cords heavy with roots and laid out boxes of salted meat, unaware of the fiery disaster swiftly approaching. , "Great art can never be created without great suffering." , It's a small step from revel to bloodbath. , The travelers were warned to watch out for children on the road. , The Golgari support a vast army because death never ends its soldiers' service. , "Let the vampires join us. In this war, we no longer have the luxury of choosing our comrades."
—General Tazri, allied commander , The ring plays host to some combatants that the spectators love to hate. , "There is a sourness here that I don't understand. When the land reaches out to me, I hesitate to reach back."
—Nissa Revane , "You've heard that a vampire can't enter a home without an invitation? A lie meant to help you sleep at night."
—Kerin, watch sergeant , "Their blood is the nectar that nourishes the Cabal."
—Phage the Untouchable , "We are free. It is our duty to live well." , "We are as brutal as our dragonlord. We strike like wild lightning and feast on human flesh." , Kolaghan blades rarely stay clean for long. , In an age of war, time is measured not by sand but by blood. , "A single drop of blood draws their attention, then they strip your bones clean before you have time to die."
—Jamias, hermit of Telfer Peak , While elder vampires select their meals with care, the newly sired frenzy at the first whiff. , When a paladin undertaking the Blood Fast finally gives in to hunger, the violence is sudden, explosive, and complete. , Life is a show, and death its final performance. , "To immortality." , Fear pierces the strongest armor. , "I have all the weapons my enemies have—and far deeper rage."
—Tojira, swamp queen , "The bloodlust shall not control me, for my oath is my greatest compulsion." , Predicting the future is a messy business. , Succession is a matter of blood, and by blood it is often decided. , It took all its strength to contain the fire within. , For them, the only honorable death is one that leaves a crater. , Bloodfire practitioners train to focus their rage, building it deep inside themselves until they are ready to release it as a devastating attack. , Some efreet abandon their homes in the volcanic Fire Rim to embrace the Jeskai Way and discipline their innate flames. , Heart of fire, blood of lava, teeth of stone. , The adept underwent months of preparation to withstand pain, until he was finally ready to receive the efreet master's teachings. , "Death not for survival but for vanity and pleasure? This is the decadence I sought to curb."
—Sorin Markov , Spilled blood always begets more of the same. , The star performer of the Juri Revue, his shows have fans and blood spilling into the street. , "When Torahn bellows, none survive—not even the warrior whose horns he rides."
—Talruum adage , He relishes the devotion of his Skirsdag puppets and their belief that it will earn them immortality. , "Some savor the hunt. I savor the kill." , A drop of blood spilled from the first dragon. , "Build a moat. If we're lucky, it can't swim."
—Syr Branigan, knight of Ardenvale , It would be ill-mannered to decline his invitation. It would be ill-advised to accept it. , It returns eager to share the feast of blood and gore with its ghoulish master. , "Only a knife left for a fortnight in the hollow of a ghastbark tree can inflict a wound so grave."
—Kithkin superstition , His is the fury of the wildfire, the boiling blood of the volcano. He fights you not because you've wronged him, but because you're there. , "That's not really an A. It's an Æ. They changed it! Wait, don't—"
—Hœbrus Væm, Aerathi librarian, last words , "The veil of death hides little from our kind." , Every creature of the forest has a name, and she knows them all. , "To victory! To glory! To eternity!" , Boggarts divide the world into two categories: things you can eat, and things you have to chase down and pummel before you can eat. , "Some claim that rage is a cloud that obscures thought and vision. But I can assure you—I've never seen with greater clarity." , Blood seeks blood, and nothing shall hold back its hunger. , Heavy light flooded across the landscape, cloaking everything in deep crimson. , The willow knows what the storm does not: that the power to endure harm outlives the power to inflict it. , "Ogres taunt the dragons by moving into their territory, but even the hellkites find them too much trouble to hunt."
—Marza, mountain scout , No thrull has ever been burdened with a long life. , Blood is the oldest currency. , Elementals born of Jund are as cruel and unstable as the plane itself. , To Hazoret, those who fight for her are her beloved children. , The most genteel facades hide the most abominable desires. , "There is no greater folly than standing against me."
—Nicol Bolas , "The brood lineages unfolded across the world, each patterned after one of three progenitors, each a study in mindless consumption."
—*The Invokers' Tales* , In war, the best leaders are open to all tactics. , "There are only fifty words in the cyclops language, and ten of them mean 'kill.'"
—Ertai , It tracks its victims by the scent of their breath, preferring to dine on those who recently ate well. , To study the predators of the Tangle, two people are required: one to watch from above, and one to run like hell. , Make sure you bleed the fine print. , A drop now is all he needs to find you later. , Cinder mages enjoy seeing their victims in the throes of bloodlust—and seeing the regret that inevitably follows. , After their first encounter, the goblins named him Chuck. , "Just think how strong I'll be if my arms don't tear off!" , Blood seeps into the stone, and darkness emerges. , "Death is merely another foe the Mardu will overcome." , Where dragons once triumphed, their bones now molder. , "The stone whispers to me of dragon's fire and darkness. I wish I'd never pried it from the figurehead of that sunken Keldon longship."
—Isel, master carver , The stone whispers tales of darkness and fire. She replies, "Tell me more." , As the struggle raged for control of the Immortal Sun, the world grew dark under a blood-red sky. , "My liege will lead and I will follow—to the battlefield, to the grave, and beyond." , "Bring me an angel feather, and I will give you one death in return. There can be no turning back once the candle is lit."
—Whisper, blood liturgist , A circus acrobat in life, she kills with such fluid grace that even her victims are awed by her performance. , The weapon wields the hand that holds it. , Naya's celebrants stoke the gargantuans into a rage, loosing a tide of muscle with the precision of an arrow. , Some humans willingly offered up their blood, hoping it would grant the vampire families the strength to stave off the Eldrazi. , The Crimson Throne may be empty, but its coffers are full. , When harpies demand a toll to cross through their territory, consider yourself lucky if they permit payment in coin. , "Flee all you like. The further you run the more firmly I feel your heartbeat." , "They are bred to suffer and born to die. Much like humans."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor , "Tread upon these flower beds at your own peril."
—Emmara , A retreat to nature can inspire even the most jaded inventor. , Beauty is a seed, waiting to blossom under her capable hands. , The only force on Ixalan not interested in finding the golden city is Ixalan itself. , Those who move harmoniously with the flow of aether can channel the power of the natural world. , "I place this wreath for you, my kin. Even in death, you give me strength to avenge you."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , When the giant Tollek Worldslayer fell, a corruption erupted from his corpse to carry on his name. , "You think these walls will protect you?
My, you have a dim view of the power of the wilds."
—Marawen, barrow witch , Nothing escapes a sharp mind. , "The Origin Query will wait. We must ensure we survive to return to it."
—Pelyus, vedalken ordinar , "Much can be gained from the appearance of vulnerability."
—Ezuri, renegade leader , Samut battled her way through the hordes, shouting the names of those who'd died in her crop and those she hoped yet to save. , "The mongoose blew out its candle and was asleep in bed before the room went dark."
—Llanowar fable , They move in a synchronized swarm, turning entire squads into heaps of bloody rags and bones in an instant. , Weather is more predictable than the Izzet. , Its eyes are bigger than its stomach, but its mouth is larger still. , A new gathering for a new age. , The boar leads its rider to victory in battle, but it doesn't know how close it is to becoming the victory feast. , "From in here, everything looks like dinner." , "I am who I pretend to be." , A hunger to soar must be sated. , "The next one who tells me to relax and curl up by a fire is dead."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , Cleansing the world, one breath at a time. , In the erupting heart of Bogardan, it's hard to tell hurtling volcanic rocks from pouncing volcanic beasts. , "The hardest thing is finding the right ingredients." , "When the bog walks, the wise run."
—Erissa, bog witch , The Aurora transformed Nibb and Gyik from mischief-makers into feral marauders. They still don't know much about tool safety. , Auntie excitedly held up the squalling newborn. "This one looks like Byoog! Maybe he'll tell us what he saw and felt in the beyond." , He has the biggest bashing stick, so it's a safe bet he's the leader. , "Reach in this hole, lose a hand. Reach in that hole, find a sparkly."
—Auntie wisdom , Auntie Flint lent axes to Nibb and Gyik, thinking they'd share their experiences with her. She's still waiting for them to come back. , "We're going to need a bigger gate."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain , Boggarts revel in discovering new sensations, from the texture of an otter pellet to the squeak of a dying warren mate. , "Auntie pointed out to the faerie how much mischief a flying boggart could wreak, and a beautiful new friendship was born."
—A tale of Auntie Grub , Not all of Dominaria's defenders were nourished by the light. , Think of it as a butcher knife with wings. , "Urborg's magic is strong. Did Urza send you to protect us or to protect against us?"
—Urborg witch, to Barrin , "The faerie plucked an acorn off the ground. One knight's quest was about to come to a bitter end."
—*Tales of the Fae* , Zombies are the perfect marshland fighters—they don't need to breathe and they don't care what they step in. , Their stench was vile and strong enough, but not nearly as powerful as their hunger. , "We thought it was a fallen tree trunk. Then it ate Snod."
—Sneed, goblin barkwright , They slide over the bog like oil across glass. , "They are gentle herbivores, despite their size. Approach cautiously, and hum a tune to let them know you mean no harm."
—Vivien Reid , "If you want to test wisdom, offer it to fools and watch how they tear it up." , A wraith is a tale of brutal slaying told anew whenever it finds a victim. , The world is the body. The mana is the blood. The witch is the surgeon. , She died in this swamp, and so will you. , "When every reef is bared and every wave is dust—only then shall I rest." , Your father has no horns!
Your mother wears a bell!
You drink the milk of goats!
—Talruum taunts , What burns the land, boils the seas. , "I don't do tactics. I don't do guard duty. I do damage. Take it or leave it." , The ingredients for panic include equal parts danger, uncertainty, and helplessness. , Burning with hatred for Nahiri, the Voldaren and Markov forces assaulted the warped Markov Manor with a collective fury not seen in centuries. , Even if giants bring nothing else on a journey, they bring attention. , "Now everyone knows what you are." , Jaharg discovered that the shapes and symmetries so pleasing to the sculptor's eye also yielded a well-balanced bludgeon. , "Give them everything you've got . . . and some things you don't."
—Ral Zarek , Its spark is worse than its bite. , The breakthroughs granted by Keranos, god of epiphany, can be surprisingly literal. , When battling the Kolaghan, consider yourself lucky if lightning strikes the same place only twice. , "Want to sink a ship? Blow a hole in the hull. Want to kill a regisaur? Same answer."
—Captain Brandis Thorn , "Subtlety is for lawmages and spies." , A beetle on your shoulder
—Elvish expression meaning "a blessing of luck" , Loyal to a fault, it heeds its master's every command. , A well-made homunculus grooms the mind of its master, pruning the thoughts that lead to madness. Few loredelvers survive the study of the infinite without one. , "You don't tame a horncrest. You convince it that it's easier to destroy something else."
—Amautl, knight of Atzocan , There is a sanctuary that reveals itself only to those graced by the *eludha*—the mystical connection between bonder and monster. , "Found families deserve a family crest too."
—Kinnan, bonder prodigy , The Rakdos are unique in designing torture equipment they can operate while "suffering" alongside their victims. , "We agree that order benefits everyone, but not until you enforce it." , "We agree that life should flourish. We disagree on the optimal number of limbs." , "Together we can unlock secrets no one has even dreamed of. I might even let you remember some of them." , "Why don't we fight for what's right and let bureaucrats argue over the details?" , "Today we throw off the yoke of death. Either this is an affirmation of the eternal cyclical nature of life, or it's just hilarious—depends on which of us you ask." , "What cannot be destroyed will be bound."
—Oath of Avacyn , Jace discovered the leyline pattern needed to anchor Ulamog and Kozilek to reality, but it was Nissa who could trace it on her world. , The sea's reach extends beyond its shores. , One thing's for sure—his fists are harder than your skull. , "Living or dead, everyone responds to the proper motivation." , Not every tale ends in glory. , Its roar is the clatter of a thousand bones. , After the Battle of Pitdown, Lady Ursnell fashioned the first such instrument out of Lord Ursnell's left leg. , "Only fools believe they will face my armies but once."
—Kaervek , Nothing comes together as easily as it comes apart. , "The protection offered comes at a price. How numerous are your kin?"
—Purraj of Urborg , They are the first to greet dissenters on their journey into exile. , Welcome to the club. , Once a simple tool, it—like everything else on Zendikar—has been turned into a weapon against the Eldrazi. , "Their appendages are sharper than our swords and quicker than our bows."
—Hastric, Thunian scout , Rattle me bones as I cross the floor And the bones in your grave will rattle no more. , "Which do you deserve, the heft of a femur or the graceful sharpness of a forearm? Decisions, decisions . . ."
—Gisa the Mad , "It puts an end to what ails you."
—Jeorg, Valla battlemaster , As the time streams grew more and more unstable, Dominaria's creatures struggled to adapt. The intense pressures led to many dead ends but also to lethal new forms that appeared as suddenly as the ashen rains. , Barbarians weave its spurs into ceremonial charms to proclaim their hardiness in battle. , "I can think of worse ways to go. On second thought, maybe not."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist , Death arrives on tattered wings and stolen bones. , The only thing it likes more than discovering a pit of bones is adding to it. , To the last, Bontu wanted only to be first among the God-Pharaoh's subjects. , "The worthy shall strive for greatness. Supremacy in life leads to supremacy in the afterlife."
—Monument inscription , When the twin-spell bonus round begins, the crowd rises to its feet in anticipation of incredible combinations. , The wizard's spellbook was full of burning questions. , "Not my first edition of *The Advokist and the Urchin*!" , "O! call back yesterday, bid time return."
—William Shakespeare, King Richard the Second , "Fuses? We have more than enough! Now . . . which one was it?"
—Flearan One-Eye, goblin engineer , All around Emrakul, life re-formed in her image. , "Death is not a certainty. Erebos determines when a mortal's time is up."
—Iadorna, death priest of Erebos , "There is no law of nature that I have not seen Illuna break. Makes you wonder what is truly possible, does it not?"
—Rielle, the Everwise , Twice brewed and twice blessed, the remedy restores both body and mind. , "You saved that *Urza's Saga* pack all these years for *this*?" , "I have a number of hyper-specific phobias and this somehow hits all of them."
—Aaru, Zagoth lumberjack , "It's easy to see why those Gruul dirtbags follow him—the only orders he gives are 'Crush them!' and 'We eat!'"
—Teysa , "Join the army, see foreign countries!" they'd said. , Giants share nothing but their fury. , Though she is rightly feared, there are relatively few tales of her deeds in battle, for few survive her raids. , "You have led us to triumph over the forces of Mogis!" said Brygus the Brave, clapping the Champion on the back. The Champion wiped the sweat and blood from her brow. "I count eight graves," she said. "Too many to call this a victory."
—*The Theriad* , "There's only one route from Kessig into Stensia. Unless you come with me." , "We have been victims of treachery, of the Cabal, and of our own ambitions. No more."
—Commander Eesha , Those who used reindeer as beasts of burden knew to avoid the centaurs, who raged at the enslavement of their spirit-kin. , Some creatures are bound to the cold by Rimewind magic. Others seek it out, adapted by two thousand years of the Ice. The Boreal, where Heidar's frigid sway is strongest, is home to both. , Winter's breath given form. , "More than snow falls from the Boreal skies."
—Arkin Egilsson, skycaptain , "Who will stay the Tyrant's hand, As ice and woe both grip our land? The helpless feel his frozen brand."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings* , Leaders shape the minds of their allies. It takes a master to shape the minds of enemies. , "Send your champion. I could use a light workout." , "Practice compassion and mercy. But know when they must end."
—Aurelia , "In case of fire, treachery, citywide riot, political upheaval, or worldwide societal collapse, break glass."
—Cluestone inscription , "First, you must fight among the rank and file. It is there I will discern your skills as a leader."
—Aurelia, to Gideon Jura , Enter with merciful hearts. Exit with battle cries. , "We pass these along to our fellow soldiers to recognize deeds of valor. It won't stay with you for long."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage , "Imagine a thunderstorm that's also a tactical genius. That's him."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain , "Look at this goblin, once wild, untamed, and full of idiocy. The Boros have given him the skill of a soldier and focused his heart with a single cause."
—Razia , "Have you ever held a Boros signet? There's a weight to it that belies its size—a weight of strength and of pride."
—Agrus Kos , When the Boros Legion attacks, swiftblades enter the fray first. They pick off the archers and mages, softening the enemy front before the flame-kin and giants go in. , Kongming and Lu Su tricked Wei troops into shooting over 100,000 arrows at them to later use against the Wei at Red Cliffs. , As Glissa searches for the truth about Memnarch, Bosh searches to unearth the secrets of his past. , Deep in a murmuring bosk, where the trees' memories span centuries, the simple banner of green and copper signifies an elder whose rings number more than a faerie's days. , "Step 1: I believe in a power and toughness greater than myself . . . ." , Life inspires technology, which expands life's domain. , Reinforcements . . . or refreshments? , "I'm sure it came with the place. I don't think you build one on purpose."
—Gerrard , "Defeating the Meletians was not so difficult. I needed only to move a mountain."
—Eocles, oracle of Purphoros , "If someone claims the sky is falling, I listen."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist , Beebles are frequently hurled against stone surfaces at high speed but always zing back into the air with a giggle. , Unpredictable as a storm and destructive as a tidal wave. , A fight put off forever is already won. , "Planeswalking cannot be taught. Either you see the doors or you do not."
—Nissa Revane , Even the most benevolent and life-giving of kami joined the war against the mortal world, but only with heavy and sorrowful hearts. , "When we fail to see the beauty in every tree, we are no better than humans."
—Saelia, elvish scout , No pilgrimage to Valor's Reach is complete without a stroll through its celebrated shopping district. , "Lately I've seen the biggest bounties of my career—and for the biggest names." , "Once they've marked you," Starke said, "the world is made of glass." , "I am the very soul of battle, but even I would never advise open war with the Conclave."
—Aurelia , In the darkest hours, some denied Avacyn. Now the Kessig wilds are their only haven. , Skrab tried to warn his fellow goblins that the hammer was bait for a trap, but they stopped listening at "hammer." , Flesh can be tempered by spellcraft and forged ever stronger by the hammers of foes. , "My rule persists beyond death itself." , On Fiora, no matter is settled until King Brago offers an opinion. , "To a trained mind, the cold is but a momentary distraction." , "Home is where you can find a decent graveyard and strangers can disappear without awkward questions." , The rifted multiverse became a sea of conflicting realities, each peopled by possible versions of every living being. , "I think it no accident that every civilized people has discovered the art of distillation."
—Rofellos of Llanowar , An Esper mage will leave a hole in your memory with surgical precision. A Grixis mage sees no reason to be so kind. , In spite of their hunger, they're slow eaters. , To the Rakdos, the fun is in the shakedown. The loot is usually discarded. , "I have a plan. Actually, I have three." , "They're not your friends; they despise you. I'm the only one you can count on. Trust me." , "I've seen the fully grown ones tear a baloth to gory ribbons in seconds."
—Kivi, thornberry harvester , Nature abhors a lot of things. , In abandoned corners of Ravnica, nature has begun to reclaim what it once owned. , No matter the cruelty of Oko's jokes, he's always guaranteed the sycophant's laughter. , A bramblesnap is formed by grafting together thirteen different plants that already hunger for meat. , "Within this grove, you belong to me." , Life will find a way, or it will make one. , Those who seek to escape her blades succeed only in dying on their stomachs. , "Lightning lives in everything, in living flesh and growing things. It must be set free."
—Rakka Mar , "Is it the water? The stars? Whatever it is, something incredible is happening here."
—Eris, zoologist, journal entry , undefined , Lorians treat trees and prey the same way: by ripping them limb from limb. , "By this glyph I affirm your role."
—Urza, to Karn , "The sword or the lash. Choose."
—Akul, Keldon whip sergeant , "Let those who bear the brand receive no shelter, no kindness, and no comfort from our people."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain , "You hit like a kobold!" , "A whole skin is worth a thousand victories."
—Orcish veteran of the Battle of Montford , Its buzzing is the sound of its inner mechanisms, ever winding down. , "Why squabble for trinkets when we could be living large off all this gold?"
—Admiral Beckett Brass , The students disliked the secretary for its unfailing memory—until they discovered it couldn't dodge thrown objects. , "I admire it. Few pull off pluck and subservience at the same time."
—Ezuri, renegade leader , "We drive the dragons from our home. Why should we fear you?"
—Fire Eye, viashino bey , "Trust me, your lost fingers and toes are nothing compared to the lost treasures of Sejiri."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader , Enduring the most desolate and dangerous conditions, Abzan sentries unfailingly guard the stronghold gates. , Anything can happen when patience is scarce and wine is abundant. , "'I have arrived,' bellowed Brawn, and the plane shuddered."
—*Scroll of Beginnings* , Finders, keepers. , Driven by an insatiable hunger, gremlins never cease feeding. They can destroy a lifetime of work in just a few moments. , With fewer patrols about, Kessig's roads have become prime hunting grounds. , Don't try to ride this steed unless you've got gills too. , These waters remain uncharted, but not for lack of trying. , "No good will come of this." , "There are some who have lost everyone and everything. They actively seek out the Eldrazi, eager for the smallest measure of vengeance."
—Munda, ambush leader , "Enough!" , undefined , There are two ways to resolve puzzling situations: thoughtful contemplation or force. After thoughtful contemplation, most barbarians choose force. , The ideas came flooding in so fast that they couldn't all be contained. , "If the Mardu were more in tune with their beasts, they would not scare so easily."
—Jilaya, Temur whisperer , "Get up, blast you! They're attacking! Why are you all so slow?"
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , Fire leads to more fire. , "Nothing can stop the power of life—not even death."
—Onean cleric , The blood of the demons quickened as their master rose over the battlefield. The blood of the angels also quickened: here was the chance to finally end the war started millennia ago. , "As a child, I slept with a cloth over my face, to hide from the spirits that might pull the air from my lungs."
—Mosi, Femeref weaver , "Far too many soldiers have died in their beds."
—Telim'Tor , Some see the world as a place of infinite wonder and knowledge. Some see it as an infinite dinner plate. , The thrulls bred at a terrifying pace. In the end, they overwhelmed the Order of the Ebon Hand. , "One beginning, many paths."
—Vannifar , "He blows a gust across the cliff to vanish in a breath of wind."
—"Song of the Wind Being" , A clique can cause far more mischief than one faerie on its own. , One thorn to warn, ten thorns to defend, a hundred thorns to destroy. , "One of my greatest teachers."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , As easily as the dryads could close a fist, so could the branches and underbrush entangle. , In all its forms, the forest is the elves' best protector. , Victory is certain. The price, negotiable. , In Mercadia City, loyalties extend only as far as your purse can stretch. , undefined , "Let the pyres of the unbelievers light our way."
—Razia , The banner symbolizes the goodwill of the Brighthearth. Their emissaries bring the mastery of fire to other races. , A ray of hope in the darkest night. , Vampires know blood and the systems that carry it. And they know exactly where to strike to set it free. , Wizards fought over the stone to exploit its power. Goblins fight over it because it's shiny. , "Many have walked here, but there is only one trail I seek." , Thanks to one champion archer, the true borders of Kinsbaile extend an arrow's flight beyond the buildings. , A heaven-sent vision is like a lantern to guide the way. , There are more sights on Zendikar than the eyes can see. , Revealing the truth only deepened Tezzeret's curiosity for the secrets still buried. , Peace had failed. War had failed. There was only one option left. , "Tell the cooks to prepare the fires. Tonight we feast!"
—Tolar Wolfbrother, Krosan tracker , Hunters lure the stripling boar into the open, hoping to trap greater prey. , "I always attack from where their spyglasses can't see." , Water calls to water, and the world is left exhausted and withered in its wake. , The oracles of Meletis foresaw neither its rise from the depths nor the destruction it would leave in its wake. , "The shamans of Marit Lage do her bidding in secret, but they do it gladly."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , "Big, wicked, and not too smart. Poor thing never stood a chance against us, dear."
—Regna, to Krav , "People are often humbled by the elements. But the elements, too, can be humbled."
—Surrak, khan of the Temur , "In you go, big guy. Watch your head." , "When you find yourself teetering on the edge of oblivion, mine will be the hands taking pleasure in giving you the final push."
—Liliana Vess , "The fools thought me dead. But I built an empire inside my tomb."
—Kerrick, sleeper agent , Boggarts and disturbing bits of boggarts flew through the air with alarming and untidy regularity. , Upon discovering what had become of her sisters, Sigarda could only weep. , "I can bring down anything in Zagoth, but for some quarry the ratio of fight to meat is too high."
—Master Hunter Chevill , "In my early experiments in phylactery, I found that fragile forms have their uses."
—Rocati, Duke of Martyne , "I can't bear to see another plane broken before I make my own home whole. I'm sorry, but my watch is over." , Some minds bend under pressure. Others break. , Using nature to their advantage, wise Three Kingdoms generals often let dammed rivers loose to destroy their enemies. , "I think I used up all my good luck and all my bad luck in the same fall."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , Getting airborne with a kitesail is easy. It's everything afterward that takes focus, skill, and luck. , Lucky victims get run over. Unlucky victims get run through. , They fight for their home with more loyalty than any conscript. , "Ooh, shiny! Let's pull off the chain and take her with us."
—Ukl, Gruul raider, last words , Every page holds a month, every date a numeral. , The Champion stood alone between the horde of the Returned and the shrine to Karametra, cutting down scores among hundreds. She would have been overcome if not for the aid of the temple guardians whom Karametra awakened.
—*The Theriad* , Every strike of the smith's hammer infuses a sword with the determination of its creator. , The native creatures of Zendikar have adapted to live under rocks and crawl through underbrush in order to avoid the most voracious predators. The Eldrazi have yet to make such adjustments. , "I have been trapped in the lizard's lair for days. It seems to regard me as its child and will not let me leave."
—Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry , "Come, little one. Unfurl your wings, fill your lungs, and release your first fiery breath." , Frozen in fear, the goblins stared upward at the circling hunter—and were promptly eaten by its diving mate. , The tenderness of a mother. The pity of a mantis. , "It's like waking on a bed of a thousand olives during an earthquake of subtle force."
—Afari, *Tales* , Within weeks, more slivers nested in Otaria than ever existed on Rath. , "The least of gods shall tower over the mightiest of mortals, and death shall reign over all."
—Crypt of Agadeem inscription , Fire is never a gentle master. , "As long as your courage remains, your life will not falter."
—Sephara, Sky's Blade , "Even the threat of power has power."
—Jeska, warrior adept , In a strange twist of fate, one of the most annoying creatures in the multiverse was brought to the place where it could cause the most damage. , "Once great literature—now great litter."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , She now sees only Emrakul's visions. , Magistrate Ludy agreed to designate land for the brushstriders only after several broken windows and dozens of missing blini-cakes. , He gives credit where credit isn't due. , "Defiantly, the young cyclops popped the brushwagg into his mouth. His cheeks suddenly puffed, his eye bulged, and he was forced to agree with his elder."
—Afari, *Tales* , "They no longer care about their own suffering. Show them something worse."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer , Blood, bone, and sinew are magnified, as is the rage that drives them. The brain, however, remains unchanged—a little bean, swinging by a strand in a cavernous, raving head. , It's not the size of the rock. It's how badly you want to lift it. , ". . . and furthermore . . ." , "This device was commisioned by a king who desired peace. Unfortunately, the royal artificer was also the king's jester."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , "Chancellor Rayne canceled the annual beeble roast. I should have married a crueler woman."
—Barrin , The muck claims a hundred living things for each meager treasure it spews forth. , Never underestimate the power of panache. , There is only so much a person may be buried with. , "Mix the mortar with holy wards, or blood will run in the streets."
—Vadvar, Thraben stonewright , Consulate-built automatons have a lifetime warranty. , Free from Consulate regulations, renegade-built automatons push performance to the limit. , The aurochs herd is content to graze—until the bull provides the dissenting urge to charge. , It holds motionless vigil, watching Naya in silence through the screen of the whitecover. When it senses anything amiss, it launches forward with the uncanny sound of torn fog. , Four gray trees and a long, coiling snake. What am I?
—Zhalfirin riddle , The merfolk may rule the waters, but hippos have never had much respect for authority. , "It's gone mad! Loose the chains and save what you can!" , There will always be a spot at Valor's Reach for headlong violence. , "Pain is a crude way to enforce obedience, but it is cheap and plentiful."
—Volrath , "It will be the goblin's first bath, and its last."
—Fire Eye, viashino bey , "Where did she come from? More importantly, are there more like her?"
—Gideon Jura , It's not just the wind. It's not all in your head. And it's *definitely* something to worry about. , Saprazzan merfolk become legged on land, but some find it quicker to bring the water with them. , "The one who dies with the most toys is still dead."
—Geth, keeper of the Vault , "Grab an axe and defend the gate! Your despair is an extravagance we can ill afford."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar , The first vine shows the others where to grow. , "Even rats hoard their treasures. Are your precious things so different?"
—Izoni , The scrape of shovels and the tumble of cold dirt soon muffled their pleas. , History has buried its treasures deep. , If a tree fells you in the forest and no one is around to hear it, "does it make a sound" is the last thing you need to worry about. , "Your corruption will burn, serpent, until there is nothing left to defile."
—Asmala, bloodfire mystic , "From a great bonfire at the dawn of time, the first Gruul kindled their rage. The same flame burns in you."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman , "With rage as your forge, your hammer can smite anything." , "Your world is formed from the same power that wraps my burning hand around your throat."
—Shrazik, lavamancer , "In raiding and plundering, be like fire, in immovability like a mountain."
—Sun Tzu, *Art of War* (trans. Giles) , "There is no afterlife. Not for me, and not for you. So think again before getting in my way." , Jariad burned the midnight oil, burned through scroll after scroll, and then burned down his laboratory. , Every now and then, a devil's prank can give you a good idea. , Even the lion envies the lark. , "This day will end in death, but not the one you hoped for. This day will end in victory, but not the one you expected." , "Pain teaches lessons no scholar can."
—Kamahl, pit fighter , "Any day that I ride my horse up to my ankles in the remains of my enemies is a good day."
—Akin, seasoned askari , "Tilonalli's searing rays carry the spark of life's eventual destruction as all light fades."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider , Those who regard the Gruul as savage simpletons underestimate the subtle power of their shamans. , Gruul shamans are bent on punishing the civilized. Any act more complex than rubbing sticks together or eating with utensils is met with the stinging burn of their magic. , The ostentatious splendor of the Orzhov church was just asking to be smashed. , Mist is the geists' sorrow. Wind is their pain. Fire is their vengeance. , She wished for a weapon, but not for the skill to wield it. , "For every scar I've received, I've given ten back." , Forged by divine hands to wander mortal realms. , "GOTCHA!"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , Flame doesn't kneel to Phyrexia. , "My foes serve me twice: in dying, and in death."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , The flasks provide ballast, a means of steering, and—with a little luck—a way to deliver ward-spells to cohorts below. , "We are a clachan of smiths. The forge is as comfortable to us as a small fire during a cool winter's evening." , Soul and bones, kithkin are woven into their clans. They fight fiercely and without self-interest. , Like thousands of others, the beebles quit Magic for several years following the release of the *Mercadian Masques* set. , "I stand ready to die for our world. Who will stand with me?"
—Radiant, archangel , Great generals inspire by example. Goblin chieftains inspire by electrifying the barracks. , "Our fight is not about territory or revenge. It is about freedom, plain and simple."
—Ruric Thar, Ghor-Clan chieftain , "If you've never feasted on Zagoth terror-pig, I got the best price you'll find." , Without a mind, it doesn't fear death. Without a soul, it doesn't mind killing. , His verdict is always guilty. His sentence is always death. , It can kill you with three arms tied behind its back. , Outside the safety of Thraben, there is little distinction between tool and weapon. , The Crave made Kneecleaver think she was bigger than the dragon. , "Dissent? Your gods can't even begin to comprehend the dissent that's about to happen here!"
—Chandra Nalaar , There's no race like gnome. , A good courier travels fast and asks no questions. , "You are weak. I am strong. The protocol is obvious." , Deep within the Cabal's vault, the Mirari pulsed like a dead sun—and its darkness radiated across Otaria. , "Hear only the Cabal's voice. See only the Cabal's way. Speak only the Cabal's word."
—Cabal mantra , "All hail the Demonlord Belzenlok, Evincar of the Stronghold, Scion of Darkness, Doom of Fools, Lord of the Wastes, Master of the Ebon Hand, Eternal Patriarch of the Cabal . . ." , "The Demonlord has ruled every age. Every ruin, myth, and nightmare proves his power."
—"Rite of Belzenlok" , "Each syllable chills your veins. Each word rattles your mind."
—Cabal Patriarch , "In its natural habitat, the goblin is stupid, yet devious. Now it's stupid, devious, and powerful." , The seat of Belzenlok's power, the Stronghold serves as the gathering place for the Cabal as their dark influence spreads from Urborg. , "Clerics give up when their patients die. Can I help it if I'm more compassionate?" , "Ah, a faceshredder. Very rare. Nearly unstoppable. Good luck!"
—Cabal instructor , The glittering scales in the Abzan vaults represent mighty deeds of the past and protection for generations to come. , What the current doesn't take, they do. , Its windpipe is only the first to amplify its maddening laughter. , "I like a little entertainment with my dinner."
—Rakdos , Its laughter drives needles through your mind. , The touch of his madness can drive anyone into a killing frenzy. , When a cacophodon is angry, the whole jungle knows. , The mouth must be pried open before rigor mortis sets in. Otherwise the returning soul can find no ingress. , "It's filthy work, planting them."
—Kifimbo, Shadow Guildmage , Grieve for the soul in death dishonored.
—Shadow Guild saying , "Six consecutive life sentences" takes on a new meaning when necromancy is involved. , "Power often costs too high a price."
—Commander Eesha , "Our own actions built the prisons that now hold us. Our hands reached too far and tried to hold too much."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf , "We share a common enemy. Does that not make us friends?" , As powerful and malleable as the molten rock it calls home. , "Take their faces. The lips of these unbelievers may yet honor the Demonlord." , "Some merfolk choose to rest their fins in the water. I believe wisdom exists not only where we were born but where we were told not to go." , The "leaking spire" stands for liberation from Consulate control. , Centaurs are sent to evangelize in Gruul territories where words of war speak louder than prayers of peace. , The living fear Nethroi's whispers. The dead heed them. , From a whisper to a roar, the call is heard by all and refused by none. , "They make it clear we are nothing to them."
—Lavinia , "The invasion has awoken slumbering mountains," noted Urza. "Good. We can use all the help we can get." , At Sorin's appeal, Olivia Voldaren summoned the full might of her bloodline to gather at Lurenbraum Fortress. , Benalish citizens born under the same constellations share a star-clan. Their loyalty to one another interlaces the Seven Houses. , When the alarm crystals flash, Drannith's finest answer the call. , "I've heard it said that a Planeswalker is someone who can always run from danger. But Gideon's right: we're also the ones who can choose to stay."
—Jace Beleren , Ulamog's progeny swarm the land, draining Zendikar's mana to feed the titan's insatiable hunger. , It hears and answers every orison across Shadowmoor. , "General Takeno glared at us as if we were the enemy. 'The day is not over yet,' he shouted, 'and unless you have a nezumi's heart, you will stand and fight'"
—*Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale* , On Bant, a sigil is both a prize of honor and a bond of duty. The one who bears it may be called to fulfill that charge at any moment. , "It's hard to say which is more satisfying: the search for that missing piece or fitting that piece into place."
—Evo Ragus , Grace is a gift, never a reward. , By the law of church and crown, vampires feed only on the blood of the guilty—those declared heretics, rebels, or enemies of war. , The ritual was normally performed only by horrors and pit spawn. Lesser mages had but one sanity to crack in the casting. , The chattering forest fell silent as the otherworldly song began. , The Eastern Paladin knew how highly his southern rival valued horses, so he gleefully prepared a suitable welcome. , "Within the song of Mat'Selesnya, one becomes all."
—Heruj, Selesnya hierophant , Everyone knew Walid was a pious man, for he had been blessed with many sons, many jewels, and a great many Camels. , "There is no saving this world, not anymore. But we shall be its bloody vengeance."
—Sorin Markov , The most effective roadways in Paliano aren't roads at all. , The first goblin tried to swim the canal. The second built a raft. The last and craftiest goblin launched herself from a firecannon and soared over the canal, trailing smoke. All were eaten, but only one was cooked. , "I decide what stands in my way." , Tawnos learned quickly from Urza that utter simplicity often led to wondrous, yet subtle utility. , Selesnya guildmages do not sleep so the rest of the conclave can. , "A tome stored in its light is as crisp as the day it was written."
—Ettovard, Tolarian archivist , Once the hideous disease takes hold, it spreads through both bark and mind. , Nothing warms the bark on a chilly day like a draught of elf. , "Mine." , "You can almost see it calculating—are we a tasty enough treat to risk the jump?"
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House , "In the Mwonvuli you must divide your attention between what hangs overhead and what lies underfoot."
—Sidar Jabari , The settlement's defenders were glad to have such a massive, ferocious creature join the fight—but less glad to see it flatten their homes along the way. , It keeps the upper reaches of the forest free of every menace . . . except for the spider itself. , The forest's cover offers shade, shelter, and an increased risk of sudden death. , The continent of Murasa lies beneath a blanket of dense vegetation, its enormous branches tangled so thickly that some inhabitants never see the ground. , "These runes are tough enough without the distraction," Ertai muttered, one eye on the drake. , "Move, you wretched thing! You're scaring the hurdas!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad , The broken Qal Sisma foothills make poor terrain for cavalry, but a perfect setting for ambushes. , "We'll scale these cliffs, traverse Brittle Bridge, and then fight our way down the volcanic slopes on the other side."
"Isn't the shortest route through the canyon?"
"Yes."
"So shouldn't we—"
"No." , "Relative of yours?" Ertai teased. Mirri simply sneered. , Cao Cao's cousin, Cao Ren was known throughout the three kingdoms as the fiercest of warriors. , He protects Benalia as much with his reputation as with his force of arms. , Benalia has no need for peacocks to serve as symbols of vanity. The Capashens strut more proudly than any bird. , Their shields are Benalia's outermost battlements. , Capashen riders were stern and humorless even before their ancestral home was reduced to rubble. , part basket case, all lowercase. , "I did offer them a choice . . ."
—Queen Marchesa , "You wish for great destruction? It is done, my master." , "I am no mere ship's captain. The north wind is my accomplice. The tide is my first mate." , "Who among you has the courage to face certain death? Who will heed my call?"
—Rayel Vanger, Firstblade of Thune , Forged for victory in a time of despair. , Her leadership forged the *Weatherlight*'s finest crew. , Sisay discovered that the mirrored hull of the *Weatherlight* could be used as a defensive weapon. , "We sail. We plunder. Then we dance." , "That's enough of that."
—Atemsis, All-Seeing , "Gazing at the unicorn, I felt closer to the majesty of Nyx than I ever had before."
—Oineus, traveling merchant , "Kills and cooks your food in one easy stroke." , "At last, the infamous Pia Nalaar."
—Tezzeret , The province of Jingzhou was the fulcrum of the three kingdoms. At separate times it was coveted and controlled by the Wu, the Shu, and the Wei. , "Now *that's* a fashion statement."
—Devin, faerie noble , "Bows and whips cannot save us from these new horrors of the Mephidross." , "Not too bright, but good enough for the job required—carrying and walking in a straight line."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad , "There's no coming back from that."
—Jaya Ballard , . . . that exciting . . . about . . . , "Sages who take the time to verify their sources are rewarded for their diligence."
—Jhoira, to Teferi , Books are like crops—they must be thinned for best yield. , "The guilds each believe its way is right, but their ways only bring blood to Ravnica's streets and tears to Ravnica's families." , "Renata was mesmerized by the satyr's dance of gleeful indifference, of reckless grace and bright disaster."
—Luphea of Setessa, *Histories* , "I am weak. Make . . . me . . . ideal." , "In these bloodstains I will find the fingerprints of our oppressors."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage , Not the foulest or bloodiest act at Rix Maadi by a stretch. , Sun Empire commanders are well versed in advanced martial strategy. Still, the correct maneuver is usually to deploy the giant, implacable death lizard. , The hunter would never forget the time or place where he first met the carnassid, for they buried him there. , Every contagion has a host. , Its favorite treats are candied hands and sweet hearts. , "'Davvol, blast those elves.' 'Davvol, transport those troops.' No one cares that today is my birthday." , Save a kill spell to deal with this guy. , Ranger wisdom dictates that when fleeing from a moss-beast, you must stay calm, find your bearings, and run south. , "It had a mouth like that of a great beast, and gnashed its teeth as it strained to reach us. I am thankful it possessed no means of locomotion."
—Vervamon the Elder , Eating is all it knows. , Her enemy's strength is her own. , "Birds know no borders! Why, then, should we?"
—General Varchild, in a missive to King Darien of Kjeldor , "Later we will mourn those we have lost. First we must end their suffering."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief , King or herder, the maggots care not. , "'War is no picnic,' my father liked to say. But the ants seemed to disagree."
—General Chanek Valteroth , It's all fun and games until someone loses an eye. , The natural order is out of order. , When carrion feeds on carrion, dark days approach. , It has no respect for the deeds of martyrs, reducing their legacy to a mouthful of flesh. , They chase tirelessly after the bone-carts that speed along the streets of the Plague Quarter. , No scrap of nutrition goes to waste in the undercity. , "Just what I need—more competition."
—Cabal grave robber , The banished have come home to roost. , Viashino hunt in gangs called thrashes. Not all thrashes hunt the freshest game. , A wall built from the bodies of the enemy will never lack building material in times of war. , Since it eats only carrion, sometimes it needs to make some from scratch. , Stealing goblin weapons would be easier if the goblins were smart enough to let go. , "Your life serves a higher purpose now: ensuring the continuation of my own." , "Finding the way once is luck. Finding the way twice takes a good map." , Cartouches chronicle the initiates' achievements in the trials. , The fifth cartouche is the final affirmation of glory, granted only to the worthy dead. , So-called "old wood" is rare in deforested Ravnica. Statues carved from it are said to house the last of the ancient nature spirits. , Travelers bathe in the falls to wash away curses from the pucas who lurk nearby. , "Perhaps you can't see the path, but that doesn't mean it isn't there." , "The power that flows here cannot be denied. But where is the source?"
—Nissa Revane , "Your life is finished, your name lost, and your work forgotten. It is as though Mazeura never existed."
—*Chainer's Torment* , "We have no need for military might. We wield two of the sharpest swords ever forged: Faith in our left hand, Wealth in our right."
—Vuliev of the Ghost Council , "Whether whole or not, still we serve Lim-Dûl's wishes."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn , In desperation the soldier prayed to Phenax, begging for the power to cheat the gorgon's gaze. , ". . . Our castle's strength
Will laugh a siege to scorn."
—William Shakespeare,
*Macbeth* , Without Ardenvale's loyalty, the realm would greedily devour itself. , Without Embereth's courage, the realm would falter and fall. , Without Garenbrig's strength, the realm would succumb to the wilds. , Without Locthwain's persistence, the realm would stagnate and die. , "Each place we see is as ruined and lifeless as the last. So here we stay, because this ruin is *ours*." , Where hope has no champion, evil rules all. , Without Vantress's knowledge, the realm would lose itself in darkness. , The *Weatherlight* dragged the Predator behind it, the cradle hauling the casket. , "I am sewer-king!" said Rat. "I am quick and cunning and I know every tunnel."
"No, I am king!" said Zombie. "I am cold and deadly and no rot can harm me."
Then Croc came and ate them both. , "The entire murder scene was covered in dripping, oozing slime. No need for a soothsayer to solve that one."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator , "The appearance of these warped stones throughout the provinces is too pervasive to be random. More evidence is needed to determine the reason behind them."
—Tamiyo's journal , As the hyperstormic generator crept past redline, a being emerged from the arc. , The gems' incandescence invades the dreams of all who see them. , "There's no 'I' in 'team,' but there's a 'we' in 'weapon.'" , Together they could hit anything between the heavens and the horizon. , Radiant's eyes flashed. "Go, then," the angel spat at Serra, "and leave this world to those who truly care." , The *il*-Kor no longer roam the open plains, but they are still hunters. , The Cateran guild prefers to call them "public relations." , Recruits aren't always volunteers. , Even when recruitment is slow, the guild can always cook something up. , "As far as I can tell, that frog dangling from the stick serves absolutely no purpose whatsoever."
—Gaddock Teeg , "Unwavering and loyal, they represent stability in uncertain times."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Angels , Avacyn's holy warriors kept hope alive in her darkest hours. Now they will carry that hope across Innistrad. , "A leader can inspire courage, but it is the smiths and healers who truly keep hope alive."
—Thalia, heretic cathar , "Forget. Only then will there be space for hope between the pain and fear." , The chasm of years and worlds collapsed under the power of their embrace. , "Evil will soon be vanquished. What Innistrad most needs now is healing." , Instead of creating a tool that would be damaged by heat, the Thran built one that was charged by it. , These stealthy felines have survived so many battles that some believe they must possess many lives. , While hunting aether, a gremlin may ignore other stimuli, including threats to its own life. , Every day the cat returns to kill the same mouse, which sinks again into the cauldron's brew. , "The rare and beautiful butterflies inspire the design of our thopters. The larvae, however, are a different story entirely."
—Kiran Nalaar, Ghirapur inventor , Novice explorers can mistake the acid-carved stone lairs for ancient ruins. They rarely survive to learn better. , At first, the Mirrans aimed for its exposed gut. The survivors quickly learned to do otherwise. , "Looking out the great windows of Vitu-Ghazi at the foundry stacks belching their smoke to the sky, I wonder when the sky will take its vengeance."
—Heruj, Selesnya initiate , The spite of the Cabal turns meadow into mire. , Even the wasp knows how to pay the magistrate his due respect. , Let the Dimir worry about witnesses. For the Rakdos, screams count as applause. , "It is hope, hooved and winged."
—Cymede, queen of Akros , One fleet was gone; others were poised. , Natives of Naya know better than to loiter near the mouth of a cave. Two glowing red eyes and the stench of foul breath are all the warning you're likely to get. , The druids found a haven in the cool limestone tunnels beneath Argoth. The invaders found only tigers. , When the crimson fades from the magical embers, a final wisp of smoke will rise. Soon after, hostilities will begin anew. , Flamekins' fires burn cool until they decide otherwise. , "We thought the clouds had moved from the night sky. Then the night sky moved, and the horizon grew wings."
—Josuri , "I look to the heavens for hope, but you will kneel." , "You were defeated the moment you declared your aggression."
—Gideon Jura , "Wishing upon only one star seems like a failure of imagination."
—Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter , All bow at its visitation—some in awe, some in honor, some in fear. , Upon such armor, even a mountain would break. , "It soars on the winds of dreams."
—Mu Yanling , "They say only the good die young. Obviously, you are one of the exceptions."
—Delrobah, cleric of Ivora Gate , "So great is its power, only the chosen can wield it and live."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald , As if anyone needed another reason to avoid dark, dank cellars. , "It keeps some out, yes. It also keeps others in!"
—Grandmother Sengir , "'Tis a strange creature indeed that chooses the vanquished over the victor."
—Awylla, elvish safewright , Every grave cradles a recruit. , "There's a smoothness to my magic here that I don't find on any other plane." , The more the scarier. , His home clachan's familial spirit bolsters his own, but he will be ready to preside over the town as cenn only after he learns to project that strength to others. , The choke point was the plan, but devoted camaraderie was always her strategy. , "Why so many questions?"
—Temmet, vizier of Naktamun , Editor's note: There were no suitable flavor text submissions for this card. , "Centaurs will kill our aesthir if they can; they've always been enemies. Destroy the horse-people on sight."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight , "A herd is only as strong as its weakest. Our weakest just killed his third minotaur raider—today."
—Braulios of Pheres Band , "The centaurs are truly free. Never will they be tamed by temptation or controlled by fear. They live in total harmony, a feat not yet achieved by our kind."
—Ramal, sage of Westgate , The Mirari called to the centaurs, and all who heard it were forever changed. , Instructors at the Kasarna training grounds are capable healers in case their students fail to grasp the subtleties of combat. , "I call upon the vigor of the grasses, the hopes of the flowers, and the dreams of the trees." , The wisdom of the omenreaders is legendary. Creatures travel for miles through icy peril to seek their counsel. , "Please accept this offering. I sincerely hope to leave my mace at my side." , Swift, strong, and selfless, the centaurs are the shields of the Conclave. , The farther they go from Vitu-Ghazi, the less willing the crowd is to part for them. , He wears his scars like badges of honor, warning his foes that he's not easily defeated. , It's easy to tell the difference between the devious cephalids and the trustworthy ones. The trustworthy ones are dead. , Cephalids value the free exchange of ideas—except for the "free" part. , Cephalids don't police people. They police loyalties. , Cephalids shrink from the harsh glare of scrutiny. , "Amazing, isn't it, what humans will throw away when they're drowning?" , Pathmages can open doors that aren't even there. , Cephalids whisper flattery in your ear, put jewels in your hand, spin dreams in your head, and stick knives in your back. , The more they survey the dreadful dry expanses, the more the cephalids thirst to tame them. , The cautious are wary of their enemies. The wise are also wary of their friends. , Izzet brains and Izzet boilers: contents under pressure. , "These guards are the most disciplined military unit in the city. They couldn't fight their way out of a broom closet, but they've got discipline."
—Gerrard, to Sisay , The judges at the Fair are held in such high esteem that a nod of recognition can inspire an inventor for a lifetime—and a wave of dismissal can end a career. , The unit of measurement used to chart a cerodon's growth is "persons consumed." , Some spirits cling to one person, feasting on the growing fear until a final moment of all-consuming terror. , Dragons avoid the bright colors of its wings. , "About the sphinx, I have mixed feelings. Their wisdom I crave, but their secrecy I can't tolerate."
—Szadek , "If you see ghostly lights by the river, eat three twigs of marshroot to ward off kelpies."
—Kithkin superstition , "Once, a Quirion asked why I was so cautious when the day was clear. I told him of the sky-blue hide of the cerluean wyvern, and he offered me double if I could conjure a strong tailwind!"
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight* , "The face of Light will shine upon them, and they will know war no more."
—*Song of All*, canto 918 , "The sea holds all that you need. You simply must know how to ask for it." , Scarecrows deemed too malevolent to roam free are shackled to boulders or dolmen stones. Their animosity usually outlives the chains. , A momentary lapse is all it needs to break free. , The pits have their own form of mercy. , "We train for the improbable, like lightning striking the same place twice, or striking everywhere at once."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain , "Here we go again."
—Kakra, Sea Troll , Those who do not learn from their mistakes are bound to relive them. , "You say this Tenth District, not Rubblebelt. But where smash happen, that Rubblebelt. Rubblebelt state of mind."
—Urgdar, cyclops philosopher , undefined , For most, war is a calamity. For some, an opportunity. And for the very few, a pleasure. , What's merely a home for the nautilus can become exquisite jewelry in the hands of Saprazzan artisans. , Politics is just a subtle form of mind control—and cephalids are master politicians. , "Sometimes the best plan is neither fighting nor running."
—Freyalise , The flash of his lance projects the pure radiance of his honor. , "The blood of Dromoka and the blood of my veins are the same." , "Drench these golden streets in the blood of our enemies." , The only way to finish the Trial of Strength is with a basilisk scale in hand. , Grand Warlord Radha's challengers are always defeated, but she rewards the most passionate with the Flame of Keld. After that, they burn for her. , "I stand for every cobbler, tanner, and fool in this town—and they stand for me." , "'Fraid of heights? Ride a horse. 'Fraid of missing out? Rein up a drake."
—Trinda, Hada spy patrol , Adi Thandray designed this helm as a tribute to his mentor, the great Daljit Gavaskar. , The more unlikely the victory, the more memorable the success. , "It is not your time. The Legion still needs your blade." , "Never brag about the latest wonder you've created, students. Chandler might be listening."
—Reveka, Wizard Savant , "Fire? Is that your only trick, Chandra?"
—Nicol Bolas , "Furballs? Try dealing with fireballs."
—Chandra Nalaar , "It's high tide." , "They started it." , In the moment before her execution, she realized what it meant to be a pyromancer, to be alive, to be Chandra. , "Is it purebred? No, but it's pure fire."
—Chandra Nalaar , "There's plenty of fire to go around."
—Chandra Nalaar , "I think Chandra just wanted something to blame random scorch marks on."
—Jace Beleren , "Now that I've dealt with your little toys, I can focus on the real problem: you."
—Chandra Nalaar, to Dovin Baan , Chandra was driven by her anger, directed particularly at the man who had taken her father from her. , "I've lit most everything on fire—trees, rocks, even the water. Now it's time to burn the clouds." , Her triumph came from not achieving her ideal self, but from rejecting the idea of perfection. , A mercurial face sows distrust. Distrust reaps a lonely life. , There's nothing more unsettling than locking blades with something that looks just like you. , To some mages, the meaning of life is less important than how much is left. , Few monsters challenged Narset after they sensed her power. , To some the birth of the fifth sun was a sign of doom. To others it was a sign of salvation. But to all it was a sign. , The skifsang, seafarers of Nephalia, craft spells like other sailors craft nets—making them strong enough to snare even the deadliest catch. , And you thought that was just an urban legend. , The food chain doesn't end at sandwurms. , "I dance the nothing dance, / Feet in the air, knives in the ground."
—Femeref chant , The concept of thoughtweft fascinates the Nighthearth cult. Imagine, bringing agony to an entire people by torturing just one. , Death has bound it with chains of past regrets. Forever it searches for atonement, each kindness removing a single link. , "There was a time when the purpose of the church was to heal and protect. I would see that time return." , Izzet mages often acquire their magic reagents from dubious sources, so the potency of their spells is never predictable. , The essence of night to harden the soul. , "Honor rides before us. All we have to do is catch up."
—Danitha Capashen , The Zagoth wetlands are fertilized by centuries of Brokkos's former challenges. , "If the hierarchies of nature were determined by ferocity alone, the badger would be lord of the beasts."
—Anthousa of Setessa , The fear in their victims' eyes is their most cherished reward. , Arena beasts are bred for flashiness and foul temper. An extra head addresses both requirements. , Four claws, two wings, one beak, no fear. , "I knew I should have stayed with the boat. Always stay with the boat!" , "Hope shall be the blade that severs our bonds." , The knights of Troinir Keep took the rhino as their emblem due to its intense focus when charging down a perceived threat—a trait they discovered on a hunting excursion. , Goblins prize its hide for building rock sled runners. , They stop for nothing, not even the end of a battle. , It doesn't hold grudges. It runs them down and impales them. , "Sun follows Moon until she tires, then carries her until she's strong / and runs ahead of him again."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , The greatest heroes are the first to stand, the first to take up arms, and the first to meet the enemy. , It was Gerrard's nature to lead and the Mercadians' to follow. , "War or no war, your donations are due, as always." , Zendikar's seas are deeper than anyone can fathom. , Are you sure you can afford such a luxury? , "There's something peculiar about the cats today."
—Janoc, Tin Street tinker , Jund's dragons hoard only sangrite crystals. Its wurms aren't so picky. , Elementals flourished as Dominaria healed and new forms of life adapted to the land's reinfusion with mana. , While other pirates prowl for treasure, Captain Parrish plunders secrets. , "Once he's got you, hold on. Fall from a drake and you'll suffer much worse than a bruise."
—Garl, drake trainer , With a single act of bravery, she went from expendable to indispensable. , Designed by Mike Neumann , "Why do we pray to the Ancestor? Because She listens."
—Mystic elder , And you thought Yawgmoth drove a hard bargain. , After what he viewed as Lukka's shocking betrayal, General Kudro enacted stringent security measures at every entry point into Drannith. , "Punch 'em, kick 'em, bite 'em, beat 'em! Burn 'em all and we'll defeat 'em!" , "My specialty is theoretical universal limits and ways to circumvent them." , Despite its appearance, it's anything but defenseless. , During the Chicken Revolution, the king managed to keep his head while the others—well, just ran around. , "That's a lotta nuggets."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , An eye for detail, a mind for numbers, a soul of clockwork. , "We are the swift, the strong, the blade's sharp shriek! Fear nothing, and strike!" , The foundries of Kaladesh run like clockwork under the supervision of their formidable overseers. , "We are the shield unbroken. If we fall today, we will die well, and our trees will bear our names in honor." , The clearest commands are practical examples. , The progeny of the Maelstrom shows no allegiance—and no mercy—to any of the five shards. , No guilds—that is her rule. The House vampires unnerve her. The Combine would dissect her, the Legion burn her, the Conclave "cure" her. The shadows are all the family she needs. , "The soratami scoff at the perils of Jukai, calling the forest an 'unruly garden.' Perhaps we should send them a rose such as this."
—Dokai, Weaver of Life , "We have a proud history of self-sacrifice. But it is easy, in these bleak times, to find one among us who is eager to die for any cause."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis , "Temper, temper."
—Ertai, wizard adept , If you can see your breath, it's too late to run. , From its cocoon, a flurry takes flight. , Mortal minds shrivel at its touch. , Rimewind necromancers caught travelers in mystical blizzards then trapped their spirits in the mist of their final frozen breaths. , "Serves you right for rushing ahead."
—Kaliea, Sea Gate trapfinder , "Wait . . . did you fellows hear something?" , "Thick hides and layered armor won't help when I freeze you from the inside out."
—Heidar, Rimewind master , Many sent to serve Davvol carried such instruments, as if to remind him who their true masters were. , The energy that infuses the rings with life also melts them away, leaving only useless puddles of slag. , After a chimeric idol attacked them, the Keldons smashed all unfamiliar statues. , The staff unraveled in a chaotic chorus of clanging, becoming an improbable beast of hissing blades. , "If we're going to survive, we have to use every tool at our disposal. Especially the disgusting ones."
—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout , One fateful night, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed, they rose. , Bottom feeders sometimes rise to the top. , "I treat every foe according to the highest codes of conduct. Then I kill them." , He doesn't know why the Cho-Arrim fight the Mercadians, but he's happy to bash heads for them anyway. , "Life is a series of choices between bad and worse."
—Toshiro Umezawa , "One day we shall walk where once was water."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , "Fall to your knees and welcome our embrace."
—Qal-Sha, Priest of Norn , "The people wiped the sand from their eyes and cursed—and left the barren land to the hyenas and vipers."
—Afari, *Tales* , A wizard can be outnumbered but never outsmarted. , "Mercadia's masks can no longer hide the truth. Our day has come at last." , "In each of us is the strength of all of us."
—Trostani , "We are many, yet one. We are separate in body, yet speak with a single voice. Join us in our chorus." , When nightstalkers sing, nothing in creation sleeps. , "Training and studies aid a soldier in meager amounts. The gods do the rest."
—Brigone, soldier of Meletis , undefined , By guild tradition, any puddle of multicolored light on the cobblestones can serve as neutral ground. , Visitors marvel at its design, unaware of the other world that inspired it. , "As expected, this sphere's design reflects the colors of the four moons . . . plus another?"
—Pontifex, elder researcher , "This item is not from . . . now. It reflects a sky no longer ours and gleams with hope that does not exist."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis , Who would you trust to watch your back more than yourself? , According to Auriok myth, it collects scrap in order to reassemble its lost rider. , For the chronatog, there is no meal like the present. , With the Izzet occupied elsewhere, many of their public works fell into disrepair. , She paints pictures with words, though not all pictures show the truth. , On the third night, the villagers destroyed their clocks. The sounds of whirring gears and chiming metal held only dread for them. , "In my dreams, I hear the voices of my future selves who have died in times yet to come. I use that knowledge to avoid those dark futures and continue my search for peace." , Timing is everything. , "Chub toad, chub toad At the door. Run away quick Or you'll run no more."
—Traditional children's rhyme , "Magic is like the tide—both ebb, both flow, and both serve my whims."
—Empress Llawan , "I do as I choose with what is mine. And it is all mine."
—Nicol Bolas , Not all coals lie quietly in their beds of cold ash. , Every inferno begins with a spark. , The crawler doesn't care what gets in its way. It pushes everything into the boiling muck and waits for the meal to cook. , "The old gods awoke and sent fingers of fire to see what was left of the old ways under the endless city."
—Daiva, Gruul storyteller , "The giant wept tears of embers for the deaths of his allies."
—Azeworai, "The Lonely Giant" , On the volcanic continent of Akoum, bizarre vegetation clusters around gas vents, and jagged mountain peaks rise high into the air. , Thick smoke billows and twists to form disturbing faces that cackle and click their teeth to the popping embers. , Chandra used jets of flame to lure hellions into the path of oncoming Eldrazi. , "If the whole world burns, I'll never grow cold." , Any pyromancer can summon fire with a thought. The trick is putting it out. , "The smell of roasted flesh hung over the valley for hours."
—Onean sergeant , "Life is a resource that should belong only to the strong."
—Shauku, Endbringer , They whisper of an ancient hero who saved the dragons of their world. , "Which do you think is a better deterrent: a moat of water or one of fire?"
—Chandra Nalaar , "Memnarch shall rage against us. We shall endure." , "The shortest path between two points is not always the safest."
—Tamina, district guide , "I am the first line of defense. You will not encounter the second." , "Battle is our religion. This fortress is our temple."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer , Driven mad by the fall of Argoth, the Citanul Druids found peace only in battle. , Each note of the flute mimics the call of a different beast. , From deep in the caves beneath the forest, the hierophants planned the druids' raids against the enemy. , They seek out living trees to glean age-old secrets from sap and wood. , "But . . ." , "There is much to learn here, but few can endure the ringing of the spires."
—Nulakam the Archivist , "My horizon was the arcing petals, my new home resplendent with spires of weeds and pillows of fragrant pollen."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher , "While we fought, the il surrendered."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , All those who trade in questions must answer to the Dimir. , "Oh, you fellas are going to love the lockup. Excellent gruel. Very low ceilings."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant , To condemn the innocent you must first condemn yourself.
—Civic Guild maxim , Those without a guild signet often display a different form of protection. , "These are your streets. Defend them! This is your neighborhood. Honor it! This is your city. Save it!" , "These alleys are not safe. Come, I can guide you back to the market square." , undefined , Priests of Erebos give an occasional reminder to mortals who have forgotten their mortality. , "The deal was struck and the favor had been done. And so, under the cover of night, the debt was paid."
—*Tales of the Fae* , "As we followed the ice wall, we had the distinct feeling of being watched. Many of the party wanted to turn back."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "Sorry we shelled your village—here's some gold." , The Clams down in Clamville
All scootered and skittled—
"The three is no more!"
The Clam fiddler fiddled. , "Little goblin. Big noise."
—Ruric Thar , "Duke, Duke, Duke, Duke of Pearl . . . ." , Be worthy of a single blessing, and many more will follow. , "Let the brutes fight. If they kill each other, we lose no more soldiers today."
—Orthion, Lavabrink captain , Alhammarret rose to his feet, and the full force of his mind hit Jace like a storm front. , Six feet of earth muffled his cries. , When the Brotherhood of Gix dug out the cave of Koilos they found their master's severed hand. They enshrined it, hoping that one day it would point the way to Phyrexia. , "Swords may sunder. Shields may fail. My will is stronger than steel, and my flesh and bone far more deadly." , They say the forest has eyes. They never mention its claws. , Tawnos won fame as Urza's greatest assistant. After he created these warriors, Urza ended his apprenticeship, promoting him directly to the rank of master. , During the war, the rites of purification were still effective, but the kami, not the kitsune, chose what to cleanse. , "Justice is toothless without punishment. Righteousness cannot succeed without the suffering of the guilty."
—Razia, Boros archangel , In their final moments, the demons gazed upon grace in its purest form. , "The sun creates, sustains, and consumes so it can create again."
—Caparocti Sunborn , "Crackle" and "pop" are the most wondrous sounds. , Every rebirth looks like a death. , "Why do guards always look surprised when we bash them?" asked Ruric. "I think they expect a bribe," said Thar. , "What worked to bring down angels will do the same for these horrors."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Eldrazi , "The best way to keep a secret is to forget it."
—Lazav , "Make way! It's time for the final act!" , undefined , Measure once, cut twice. , When it wriggled closer to a thrum of slivers, their talons hardened and glinted in the sun. One took a playful swipe at a tree trunk, and its new blade cut clean through. , "Faith's shield is hammered out by the blows of unbelievers."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , "Before my people turned to false gods, we built a glittering city beneath the northern sea ice. The magic of ancient Benthidrix lives in me!" , "No gods. Only each other." , War after war, a healer's enemy is always the same—death itself. , At Crossbreed Labs, "heads or tails" has nothing to do with coins. , "Our own selves are the greatest obstacles to enlightenment."
—Narset, khan of the Jeskai , The least popular goblins get the outer caves. , Made from canvas, wood, and hope. , "I swing a sword. It's a simple life. A lot of adventurers just see me as some cheap muscle, but if my steel lets them return home with their lives and limbs intact, then I've done my job." , "My people are no longer slaves to the Eldrazi, beholden to the past. We will determine our own future." , It's revered for its power, celebrated for its grace, and feared for the avalanches triggered by its thunderous feet. , Though losses run high among the scouts of the Stone Havens, they never flinch from their duty. , "Keep going! I'll buy you time!" , "The crossing demands singular focus. Your life consists of these ropes, these hooks, and these rocky crags. Your past is miles below." , The sunlight falls pristine on the temple at Epityr, softened by the remembered shadows of angelic saviors' wings. , There's an experience worse than blindness—it's the certainty that your vision is perfect and the horror that there's no world around you to see. , In bleak Tizerus, all hope crumbles in your grasp. , It is a grim duty to save the world from those created to protect it. , "That is not the voice of the wind singing on the stones."
—Callaphe the mariner , A thousand feathers from a thousand birds, sewn with magic and song. , "Useful . . . if you can find it."
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader , Mystery lies beneath the haunting mists. Never stay where obscurity deepens. , "Perhaps you believe, even in these final moments, that you will be saved. But doom has no snooze button, you fools!"
—Baron Von Count , Most clocks measure time, but a few measure everything. , "Until I came to the Floating Isle, I never had to oil the servants."
—Baki, wizard attendant , Some are annoyed by the constant ticking as they clean the cobbles, but to the castle custodians, there's no sweeter sound. , undefined , He knows your strengths, your weaknesses, and the shape of that unfortunate birthmark on your backside. , Their lust for battle was so great that they didn't care their enemies wore their own faces. , The Mercadians' ineptitude in close combat sometimes accidentally pays off. , "One would think I would be accustomed to unexpected returns."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , All the aether charts in the world can't compete with the trained eye of a talented scout. , Most eagles hunt small animals. The cloudchasers hunt magic. , "Clever folk build their homes near cloudcrowns. If a hawk or even just a faerie tries to swoop in, it'll get swatted from here to Cloverdell."
—Calydd, kithkin farmer , Each crusader bonds with a griffin fledgling while still a child, and the two grow up as siblings. , As elusive as the footprint of a djinn
—Suq'Ata expression , "The sky teems with just as much life as the forest or the deep seas."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist , A permanent storm rages over the plain of Cloudheath, and drakes ride its currents—two reminders that some elements of Esper will not be controlled. , The musical sound of its turning triggers the tumblers of revelation. , "I can see which way the wind is blowing." , When Emeria's worshippers learned that she was no more than a twisted memory of Emrakul, they abandoned their temples to the god. The deserted shrines now serve as breeding grounds for the mantas. , "He watches from above. He watches from below. He watches from within."
—Inscription on Tel-Jilad, the Tree of Tales , "It's easy to lose sight of hope until you gaze out from my vantage point." , "Even storm clouds bow to worship Avacyn."
—Elder Rimheit , Forked tails rustled. Talons clicked. A lone sliver streaked overhead like jagged lightning, and the hive thundered. , Clouds are the soil, dreams are the crop.
—Kor saying , The delicate sprites carry messages for Saprazzans, but they refuse to land in Mercadia City's filthy markets. , It *wants* to remain a mystery, banishing the curious in favor of less inquisitive company. , "Let us flee to the deep jungle. Our city is no longer safe—and I suspect neither is the fallback retreat." , The hand of death recognizes its own. , "Three such creatures stood burning at the crest of the hill. Only seconds later, the fireball struck our front line."
—Lydia, Countess Brellis , Nothing stops industry in Ravnica—certainly not the safety of its workers. , Giving little thought to their own defense, they carried the flag that united their army. , "You can build a perfect machine out of imperfect parts."
—Urza , "The day is mine! I sent three such creatures against my foe, then watched as my magefire popped her soldiers like overripe spleenfruits."
—Dobruk the Unstable, pyromancer , The sea filled the villagers' nets until the day it cast its own. , When the kavu emerged from their ancient nests, food chains long dormant became vibrant again. , Jamuraan farmers fear three things above all else: droughts, floods, and hornclaws. , "I don't like to think of myself as a pirate. I'm more like a stimulator of the local economy." , A beacon in the night, a dream in the fog. , Seeing a chimera overhead foretells good fortune, but only because seeing one any closer foretells dismemberment. , The aven came to fear the forest's clawing branches, but the watchers quickly renewed their courage. , A banner for bonds of blood or belief. , "Every Silumgar blade carries the blessing of our dragonlord."
—Xathi the Infallible , At Nahiri's call, Emrakul traversed the vast emptiness between the planes and arrived on Innistrad. , Centuries before the first tides of the Quicksilver Sea rose to meet each new sun, Mirrodin's light shone on the golems alone. , Ravnica's most ancient streets take on a life of their own. A few have decided to move to nicer neighborhoods. , Flotsam held together by optimism. , "Ask the right questions in the right way and truth is inevitable."
—Lazav , "There's very little that escapes me, Greven. And you will escape very little if you fail."
—Volrath , The ground won't accept them. , "Cogs on cats / Cogs on dogs / Cogs on hats / And cogs on cogs."
—*Song of the Cogmentor* , Duplication is neither thievery nor flattery. It is efficiency. , Why wait for answers? , Paliano's creations provide ample opportunities to plot the downfall of a neighbor. , The bite of the tinviper feels most like a razor drawn across the tongue. , Snaking remnants of nature directed by a body of thought and progress, the oracles embody all that is Simic. , Only the elves know where the woods end and the woodworm begins. , Serpentine locks shape ornate rocks. , She follows the old tributaries built when merrows still shaped the tides. , Who knows from whence the winter comes? , The Phyrexian death machine awoke, its coldsteel heart imbuing it with sinister new power. , For generations, the inhabitants of Orvada have hungered for turtle soup. For generations, the turtles have frustrated their ambitions. , "To reach my age, you must know when to bend with the winds and when to stand tall." , "Reports of Gruul rioters in four districts. Start with the big ones and work your way up."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant , It is much easier to create fire than to contain it. , Many can stand where one would fall. , Senators of Azorius often hired agents to spy on the Selesnya. They were told to record every spore and root they saw, as each could become a deadly foe. , "The beasts of the wild are my senses. It is through their eyes that all knowledge shall come to me." , "He steals power from treasure after treasure, and what does it do for the ouphe? Nothing."
—Jhoira , "Here—have a Mudhole." , These nimble sparrows, not often seen, delight in tricking the pangolins that wander the forest. , If you feel the ground quake, run. If you hear its bellow, flee. If you see its teeth, it's too late. , "Might doesn't just build empires. It protects them."
—Inti, Sun Empire knight , "Never corner a barbarian. You become the path of least resistance."
—Sarkhan Vol , "If it is bigger, you must be faster. If it is stronger, you must be sharper. Anything less, and you will never seize a place in our God-Pharaoh's perfect afterlife."
—Rhonas, god of strength , "Turns out the case of the flattened outpost and the case of the missing kitten *were* related."
—Endris, Drannith magistrate , The colossodon's hard outer shell stops many predators, but with a gentle flip from a dragon, it quickly becomes a meal in a bowl. , "There's only one way to be sure it's really dead." , Buried under a thin layer of dirt, it was known for centuries as Mount Sardia. , A steed grows with its rider. , Etherium does not know sleep. Only magic can teach it the resting state of cold steel. , "Without combat medics, Icatia would probably not have withstood the forces of chaos as long as it did."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI* , Success at Valor's Reach requires not only individual skill but also the ability to merge that skill with a partner's. , "I gazed once into that light. Now it burns in my mind, forever denying me rest."
—Riku of Two Reflections , "War glides on the simplest updrafts while peace struggles against hurricane winds. It is the way of the world. It must change." , "Rage is the only freedom left to me." , "Wear her symbol with honor, a sign of faith upheld and honest deeds bravely done." , At the general's triumphant return, renewed strength surged through the soldiers' ranks. , It harmonizes with the essence of its master. , "In every one of you I see a hero's heart." , Liliana seized the reins of Bolas's vast army, gritting her teeth behind the Chain Veil. , In the wake of Niv-Mizzet's disappearance, Ral found himself leading the guild. He had dreamed of this day, but couldn't help feeling like a pawn in someone else's game. , When defeat is near and guidance is scarce, all eyes look in one direction. , Never before have there been so many brilliant minds and wondrous inventions in one place. Denizens from every corner of Kaladesh will flock to the once-in-a-lifetime Inventors' Fair. , "Even gods shall kneel."
—Nicol Bolas , Wolf riders hone their skills traversing the perilous rooftops, each dizzying step bringing elf and wolf closer together. , Mercadia City's troops are at their best when they have no enemy to fight. , "You didn't say the Magic word." , Atarka conquered Qadat, the Fire Rim, long ago, winning over its efreet with a promise to spread the glory of fire to all the world. , For the first time in many years, Elspeth asked for help. , "The fiercest loyalties are earned in battle."
—Gideon Jura , "Our time grows short. If we wish to vanquish the Eldrazi, we must unlock the hedrons' secrets."
—Jace Beleren , "How can there be doubt in the presence of such blessings?"
—Ukhat, vizier of initiation , "So much for neighborly hospitality!" , "We returned to the field and found poor Len, every detail of his final moment perfectly cast in that awful dust."
—Javad Nasrin, outrider captain , "This wasteful design cannot possibly be Phyrexian."
—Belbe , An artificer's experiment in cross-material engineering found its own purpose as an interpreter between cultures. , A fruit must rot before its seed can sprout.
—Yavimaya saying , "Four parts molten bronze, yes . . . one part frozen mercury, yes, yes . . . but then what?" , The pain of death is nothing compared to the pain of failure. , Where high society and dark opportunity intersect. , "The treasure in my mind is greater than any worldly glory." , "You mess with one of us, you mess with all of us!" , Even the most skilled of modern mages only partially understand the Conch Horn's awesome powers. , "Just as leaves fall and the tree blooms again, one day I will fall and the Conclave will endure." , Equenauts are the seeds of the Conclave, scattered on the four winds, searching for new places to take root. , "I have faith in your potential." , "Your swords and wards have no power here." , In the cloudy skies and dim light of autumn, a flash of white wings is a reminder that better times lie ahead. , Shock one, awe the rest. , "No doubt the arbiters would put you away, after all the documents are signed. But I will have justice now."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage , "Shame we'll never see what all the fuss was about." , undefined , "Mine is not the warmth of compassion."
—Ertai, wizard adept , "There will be gains for our losses. There will be rights for our wrongs." , "Prepare for battle!"
—Jiang Yanggu , Everyone has something to hide. , "I don't understand why he works so hard on a device to duplicate a sound so easily made with hand and armpit."
—Barrin, progress report , "Citizens, do not resist. This is for your safety. Tezzeret bids you to surrender your inventions. Now." , After years of world-bending machinations, Bolas's triumph is at hand. , "Did I know Szat would betray us?" Urza asked quizzically. "I was counting on it." , "Never flinch from the truth."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben , "In the gathering there is strength for all who founder, renewal for all who languish, love for all who sing."
—*Song of All*, canto 642 , "It is fitting that we meet in the first hour of light, for we are called by the Conclave to pierce a threat of darkness." , Atarka's presence thaws the glaciers of Qal Sisma, forcing its elementals to migrate or adapt. , During seasonal thaws, the wurms slough their skin against trees to promote growth. , A bargain in Keyhole Downs is always too good to be true. , Orzhov faithful file past to have their minds purged of "impure" desires. There, the guiltwardens eliminate any thoughts of hope or self-sufficiency. , It is the moment of discovery, the triumph of the mind, the reimagining of past glory. , "Tomorrow wears yesterday's face."
—Kordel the Cryptic , "Why do we trade with those despicable elves? You don't live in forests, you burn them!"
—Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald , It speaks no commands but is always obeyed. , Blessed by the hands of Jin-Gitaxias. , "Dreams are fleeting. Reality even more so."
—Oona, queen of the fae , First your whole life flashes before your eyes. Then you have considerable time to reflect on every regret as you plummet. , Slivers are often seen toying with enemies they capture, not out of cruelty, but to fully learn their physical capabilities. , Priests of Bant protect their temples with traps more elaborate than any mosaic floor. , "The workshops are silent. Our creations have been seized. They have killed what made us alive."
—Pia Nalaar , "It's like they planted another Bastion right in the middle of the harbor."
—Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant , All skyships entering or leaving the fairgrounds must pass through the security checkpoint. , "Our watchtowers are well positioned. Why don't we arm them?"
—Enforcer-Chief Ranaj , Dimir rank and file never see nor hear their guildmaster. All orders are given through mysterious necrosages who appear from the shadows, tersely toss out a command, and then melt into the darkness. , "Your blood, your marrow, your spirit—all are mine."
—Mayvar, minion of Geth , "You are correct. This is going to hurt."
—Vraska , "Others ask why the Eldrazi destroy. I ask why they preserve."
—Ganda, Goma Fada deserter , "The elves use treefolk to drive us away. It is time to remove their tools."
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue , Headlong is the only way to pass through the gate to the afterlife. , "What will not yield will be consumed."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims , Silent as fog and relentless as plague, it is wet, creeping death. , "This species has grown to be my preferred receptacle for our divine message."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , Some protection requires a bit of finesse. , "My favorite curses are those that manifest slowly, blackening the soul in ways the victim cannot hope to understand."
—Erissa, bog witch , "No one cares about pollution until they can see it."
—Gurras, Golgari rot farmer , "How fascinating it is to watch the machinations of one's own mind play themselves out."
—Volrath , "Predictable little man. In all these years you taught me so much yet learned so little."
—Volrath, to Starke , Niv Mizzet had perfected a plan, but he had no control over the mortal minds who had to agree to implement it. , "Improvisation is for those who failed to prepare."
—Jace Beleren , "Don't waste my time with trifles. Bring me works of art, and I will make you rich." , For a price, the floating city of High and Dry offers all the amenities a pirate could want: rest, recreation, and revenge. , Those who question Ojutai may not like the answers they receive. , Common side effects include headaches, ringing in ears, and excessive smithereens. In some cases, a small hole in space-time may develop. , Togk Manytooth struggled helplessly as the kathari circled above him. For a warrior, immobilization is a fate worse than death. , "Do as I think, not as I do."
—Jace Beleren , "Power-hungry eunuchs, the curse of the dynasty, have thrown the masses of the people into the depths of misery." , Selenia had hurt Mirri terribly, but injuries of the flesh could be treated. The wounds she had torn in Crovax's soul would never close. , Enlightenment comes most swiftly at life's end. , undefined , "There is no greater coward than one who believes in nothing." , "Where are we? You must learn to ask more useful questions than that." , "No, thank you." , "The Elves train our healers, and we keep the Orcs at bay. Most Elvish bargains aren't as fair."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , It's hard to shout "Shields up!" with a javelin in your chest. , "Out here we're nothing but our training."
—Ethuk, Coopercoat mage , "We will fight as they do: our flesh protected behind metal."
—Tae Aquil, Viridian weaponsmith , Start with eleven gnomes and a room of parts, and come morning you'll have ten and a monster the likes of which you've never seen. , Like all forest beasts, it lives by one rule: if there's no room to grow, make some. , Fangren spur may sound louder, but Viridian resurgents claim that the horn of the vorrac creates a truer, more inspiring note. , "When Serra made angels, people called her a goddess. My angels are far superior to hers."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer , Where the Tangle overruns the Oxidda mountains, metallic beasts scratch their territories in the verdigris. , The myr are like verdigris: an ever-present patina on the surface of a metal world. , Simic mages create redundant backups of their experiments to reduce the consequences of catastrophe. , Few Ravnicans are aware of the vast reefs in their world's hidden ocean. Far beneath the great sinkholes, where the light is blue and dim, merfolk tend the coral labyrinths that feed the benthic ecosystem. , Some fishers like to eat eels, and some eels like to eat fishers. , "She knows every step of this coastline, both above and below the surface, and she has hideouts all along the way. She will get you there."
—Jori En, expedition leader , The merfolk know every contour of their coral homes; each reef is a garden in times of peace, and a refuge and fortress in times of war. , They wait in darkened depths, laughing eagerly. , "Please, come in! Hors d'oeuvres are on the table." , It converts the faintest surges of power from Mirrodin's core into usable energy, providing endless power for Memnarch's creations on the surface. , Don't step on the livelihood of other vendors, or they may step on you.
—Mercadian saying , Even when the flesh grows cold, knowledge waits in the bones for a master to release it. , There are laws against it, but the dead have no one to complain to and the living are too frightened to investigate. , "How did we find each other? So there I was, exploring a mount of monster corpses..." , "He expects a reward, but the only piece of silver he'll get from me is my blade in his gut."
—Shelac, necromancer , Weakness is not in the nature of the Swarm. , "With each knight that rode out from the bone-white keep, the queen's soldiers felt their courage failing."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire* , Those without breath can't complain. , Sidisi hated to limit her options. , Castle Vantress has no locks on its doors, but interlopers rarely make it past the foyer. , "Wipe Sheoldred's spies from the sky. She'll see the result of our vision soon enough."
—Glissa , Guttering cinders stoke their dying flames by snuffing out the lights of others. , Nothing tastes finer to an ooze than a priceless family heirloom. , There are things beneath the murk for whom the bog is a stew, a thin broth in need of meat. , Karn's creation is now his master. , "Look, and see the future."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims , It is all too easy to disturb the Blessed Sleep. , "Before the blessed assault begins, we must seek specimens that are well-adapted to our way of . . . life."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , "Flesh is a sickness that infects Phyrexia."
—Avaricta, Gitaxian sective , The bones of Jund's dead resurfaced in Naya, poisoning the jungle and killing the sunseeders' crops. , His favor comes at a high price. , "Lungs full of sea air and a hold full of loot. Ah, what a life!" , "Cosi has many followers. Even the volcano finds a way to do his bidding."
—Zakken, Enclave cleric , She watches the chaos created by the Roil, seeking strength in the patterns of anarchy. , "Then flashed the living lightning from her eyes,/ And screams of horror rend th' affrighted skies."
—Alexander Pope, The Rape of the Lock , For millennia they wandered from plane to plane, devouring all metal. Finally, their wanderings are over. , "This sort of innovation occurs when you set out to improve an electric tea kettle and misplace a decimal." , No lock of iron is a match for Vraska's will of stone. , Sun Quan's long and successful rule in the years 199 to 251 was due to his ability to choose and foster talented advisors and generals. , When its power is threatened, the council speaks with a unified voice. , "Wisdom is not the counting of all the drops in a waterfall. Wisdom is learning why the water seeks the earth." , Before the battle of Red Cliffs, a supposedly sleeping Zhou Yu allowed his old friend, a Wei advisor, to steal a planted letter forged as if from Wei's two best admirals. , "Pathetic. Let me show you how it's done." , The physical pain was nothing compared to the agony in his mind. , "It was probably a lousy spell in the first place."
—Ertai, wizard adept , Each of the twenty-three winds of Esper is named and chronicled, and every possible interaction with the flow of magic is exhaustively detailed. , The Eternals had long since mastered every technique taught during the trials. , "Go forth and cause trouble, my little one!" , "Thanks to my father, I know how to fight. He also showed me why I must." , One silvery blast signaled that she wouldn't be arriving at Thraben alone. , "Sea Gate has fallen. Survivors are on the move. Will send another griffin when we find refuge. Stay hidden. Stay safe."
—Message from Tars Olan, kor world-gift , The Orzhov started using hawks as messengers in order to bypass the many toll roads and bridges that dot Ravnica. Soon the service became one of their most profitable businesses. , In ages past, Esper couriers bore messages written on ornate scrolls. The medium has grown more sophisticated, but the principle remains the same. , Bleak rumors reached Trostani's ears. She decreed that no one should travel alone. , The Sun-Dappled Court of Valeron stands secure behind a wall of steel-tipped arrows. , "The healers of Bant are second to none. I owe then a great deal for their tutelage."
—Ajani Goldmane , Mages of Esper measure their wealth and status by the number of servants in their retinues. , "My one regret is that I have mastered an art that leaves its audience unable to applaud." , Watch your step. , A throne built on wisdom cannot be toppled. , A righteous sovereign makes for a blessed realm. , "The Boros fight for justice. The Azorius fight for law. I hold the line between, and make sure the people are given both." , Before signing anything on Grixis, always read the fine print. , Some spies seek clarity. Others seek transparency. , Gatha survived as long as he did by giving all Keld's predators exactly what they wanted. , "Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once."
—William Shakespeare, *Julius Caesar* , "You will fully understand fear when you discover it is the final thing you put your faith in."
—Nicol Bolas , Consulate guards who pursue fleeing renegades into the Cowl often become lost—occasionally permanently—in the city's wildest greenbelt. , Seven wives made seven pies from seven apples, each plucked from its branches. Now bare and bitter, it comes to exact its price: one apple, one bone. , "There is no place for mercy in defense of our lives."
—Ta-Spon, Cho-Arrim executioner , "All buildings are subject to search. Resistance will be punished."
—Enforcer-Chief Ranaj , It adds injury to injury. , Do not fear the lightning. Fear the one it obeys. , As the path he sought came into focus, Niv-Mizzet took steps to prevent others from approaching it. , He calls upon both the currents in the sea and the current in the clouds. , "As the war progressed, the destruction the kami caused became more widespread and less predictable."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , Mother, sleep / Dream our lives Our roots your soul / Our leaves your bed. , Many such monuments dot the wasteland known as Ifnir. , Naya's trees grow tall and sturdy. Their foliage intertwines to form dewcups, rainwater pools where the elves gather to celebrate life. , "As the fell soil's appetite grows, it gulps down passersby upon their first footfall."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours , Possession is eleven-tenths of the pirate code. , Follow the pathmage
—Otarian expression meaning "escape quickly" , undefined , Each night that his bowl fills, a village mourns. , "Be happy when you see a puca shaped like mischief. It's far better than one shaped like death."
—Dindun of Kulrath Mine , It follows the strongest leader—the one with the longest whip. , The greatest idea the zombie ever had in its head wasn't even its own. , Gerrard shook his head as the ground rushed to meet him. "This," he thought, "is not the start I was hoping for." , Bores ruin a party. Boars are party to ruin. , "The Northern Beacon flared, and even before the drawbridge finished its descent, the knights charged out."
—*Legend of the Gilded Knights* , "The other guilds think they're untouchable. It's time we brought them back down to earth."
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage , "When the herd moves, so should you."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist , Love is like a rhino, short-sighted and hasty; if it cannot find a way, it will make a way.
—Femeref adage , The Legion's conquistadors could endure Ixalan's sun. Their forts could withstand a charging ceratops. But nothing can stop a ceratops strengthened by the sun. , "We have to get out of the city, Djeru. All of us! Gather as many as you can."
—Samut, former Tah-crop initiate , Its footsteps of today are the lakes of tomorrow. , "'Utterly' is my favorite way to destroy something."
—Chandra Nalaar , What is high as a mountain and low as a snake?
—Dal riddle , "I say victory is better than honor." , Harthag gave a jolly laugh as he surveyed the army before him. "Ho ho ho! Midgets! You think you can stand in my way?" , Zendikar is restless. , Lord Rondor arrived for battle with sixty war elephants, ten catapults, and two hundred of his finest archers. Then he saw the battlefield . . . , The most terrifying thing about the craw wurm is probably the horrible crashing sound it makes as it speeds through the forest. This noise is so loud it echoes through the trees and seems to come from all directions at once. , These are its last days. Mourning is over. Rage remains. , "The longer it's caged, the madder it gets."
—Firecat handler , Because fighting is easier than figuring out what else to do. , They are Phyrexia's couriers; the messages they carry are inscribed on their slick hides. , Some eat the living. Some eat the dead. It eats the past. , There once was a player named Quinn, . . . , "I saw the devastation when the juggernauts crashed the walls of An Karras. Then I got to thinking."
—Janji, sylvan druid , "We will reveal the futility of their heresy by showing them how fragile their relics are."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , Sanctions, mandates, regulations . . . These things mean nothing to the natural world. , The destruction of a wildfire with the tenacity of a jungle vine. , A child's porcelain doll went missing one night, as did a pair of kitchen shears and the town magistrate. , "Without a body, the soul is helpless to fight the terms of our contracts."
—Somhaur, Orzhov pontiff , Mercadian soldiers excel at finding things to stand behind. , "Craghorns experience a wide range of emotions: rage, fury, anger . . ."
—Foothill guide , "Our survival, like theirs, depends on our ability to work together."
—Huatli, to Tishana , "It is evidence that some pure corner of the world must still exist."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate , The faithful will walk through streams of fire and emerge unscathed.
—Crimson acolyte creed , The hellkites are artists with flames, painting the world with fire. , The finest soldiers aren't worth a whit without a set of hands to lead them and a set of eyes to guide them. , "Kobolds are harmless."
—Bearand the Bold, epitaph , "We wield the fires of rage. War is our blood and destruction our birthright."
—Crimson creed , Noted neither for their good looks nor their charm, manticores can be fearsome allies. As dinner companions, however, they are best left alone. , The whispers are incomprehensible, yet cinders always hear a message of urgency. , "Still alive? No matter. I'll leave you as a warning to others who would oppose me."
—Vish Kal, Blood Arbiter , One breath of the geist turns veins to rivers of ice and freezes hearts midbeat. , "Everything in the trial has teeth. You will overcome them, or you will feed them."
—Rhonas, god of strength , The God-Pharaoh's angels stripped former initiates of their cartouches and the fortifying magic they provided. , The Crookshank military boasts a standing army of nearly twenty-four million, give or take twenty-two million. , Zendikar's elves have developed innovative methods to mitigate the effects of the Roil. , "Crosis is the eye of the ur-dragon, piercing illusion and darkness." , A pretty bauble of persecution. , There is no drake that flies faster than a crossbow bolt.
—Vec saying , "He can split a marshfly in two from halfway across the range."
—Onean sergeant , "May the steel of your blade match the steel in your soul." , Information travels quickly through Ravnica's network of messengers and thought agents. , "Do not flatter Fate. It did not guide you into my clutches tonight. That was all my doing." , Harbin's ornithopter had been trapped for two days within the currents of the storm. When the skies cleared, all he could see was a horizon of trees. , Crovax was destined for an angel's curse, but one warped timeline saw the noble redeemed. , "The rabble likes them. Make sure they win, then book them for tomorrow."
—Cabal Patriarch , They envy the life-giving heat so much that they tear it from those who still possess it. , The best way to calm a rampaging ceratok is to wait until it dies of natural causes. , While most in Paliano seek fame through favor, he'll settle for infamy through blood. , "Wisdom, clear my eyes." , "Honor, guide my step." , Every head it rests upon winds up severed. , "With this crown, assert your authority."
—Crown inscription , "All my life I've fought these monsters. Today I finish that fight."
—Barrin , "Passion, fire my heart." , "Darkness, hide my fear." , "Life, be my shield." , "Well, this can't be a good sign."
—Old Rutstein , Storm crow lonely, boon for a birder.
Storm crows together, likely a murder. , "The dragon is a perfect marriage of power and the will to use it."
—Sarkhan Vol , Amidst the darkest ashes grow the strongest seeds. , Success is one part inspiration, nine parts desperation. , "Whichever side wins, I'm sure the banquet will be superb." , "Choose your next words carefully. They will be your last."
—Phage the Untouchable , Bitter the bite of a demon's steel, and deep the abyss it opens. , As Gideon watched the initiate murder his crop-mate, his admiration of the city of Naktamun gave way to horror. , On Innistrad, Liliana embraced necromancy, honing her powers by practicing on scores of undead—and sometimes the living. , Face of innocence. Hand of death. Designed by Edmund McMillen , The more you pay for the lesson, the better you'll remember it. , There is always a greater power. , "Ashes and dust; dust and ashes. Hope it works before it smashes."
—Argivian children's rhyme , "I was there to watch my brothers' quenching. I drew the slightest warmth from their dying rage."
—Illulia of Nighthearth , "They say the ruins of Sedraxis were once a shining capital in Vithia. Now it is a blight, a place to be avoided by the living."
—Olcot, Rider of Joffik , "We are Odric's sword. We strike without fear, for his mind has divined how our foe will be slain." , "My only dream is to destroy the nightmares of others." , A golem's hands know no tenderness. , The Izzet mage knew she would neither get her thermoinverter back nor have the satisfaction of exploding it herself. , "All I ask is complete obedience."
—Nicol Bolas , "Do not mistake your lofty vantage point for safety."
—Shaper Tuvasa , It is said that the mere touch of a kami is like embracing the sun itself. , "Your veil's curse won't stop me, deathmage. I have taken down countless night hunters and this dark plane is not big enough for you to hide."
—Garruk Wildspeaker, to Liliana Vess , Five-toed grave
—Kithkin phrase meaning "a giant's footprint" , Ugin's whispered summons led Sarkhan Vol to the moment that would echo down the centuries and seal Tarkir's fate: the primal battle between Ugin and Nicol Bolas. , The people of Terisiare had come to live on frozen fields as though on solid ground. Nothing reminded them of the difference more clearly than the rifts brought on by the Thaw. , If your ears bleed, it's a party. If your eyes bleed, it's a Rakdos party. , Tritons borrow the camouflage of their oceanic prey to become predators on land. , Once an angel, now an abomination. , Although Cryptwitch Merree vanished after a spat with Rakdos, her playthings lingered. , "I guess what they say is true. What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. Or at least stranger."
—Captain Eberhart , Only when you've given up the search will the caves yield their secrets. , "The seas are no less imperiled than the dry lands. This fight is mine as much as it is yours."
—Kiora, to Gideon Jura , Its lock changes to fit each key. , It slithers through the senses, constricting consciousness and poisoning perceptions. , The Golgari maze-runner Varolz hungers to prove his fortitude in battle, and his trail of victims feeds other hungers. , "Even the rats refuse to set foot inside. I fear to think what might be waiting in there."
—Gravedigger's journal , The dead entered as worthy. They exited as Eternals. , undefined , The chant was incomprehensible, but its power was unmistakable. , "If left in the enemy's shape too long, it might be lost to them."
—Vy Covalt, Neurok agent , "Shoo, you little worm tails—go away! My corpses aren't your dinner!"
—Ghoulcaller Gisa , The tender light of the living quickens the pulse of the dead. , "Death couldn't contain the slivers. What made us think we could?"
—Riptide Project researcher , "Piece the tragic notes together and is it not a melody?"
—Teysa , It loves blending into its environment, ambushing prey, and long scuttles on the beach. , It glints with arcane truths to those who know how to glimpse them. , As Serra was to learn, the peace and sanctity of her realm were as fragile as glass. , "Once, a wealthy king commissioned an artificial creature to be crafted from the royal treasury, thinking it a clever ploy to have the jewels guard themselves."
—Azeworai, "The Golem's Wish" , "As a boulder diverts a stream, the crystals bend life around them."
—Rielle, the Everwise , Bred as living shields, these slivers have proven unruly—they know they cannot be caught. , "How tragic that greed eclipses beauty."
—Seton, centaur druid , Polished by a thousand waves. , "Surprise is a useless, untidy emotion—the plaything of goblins and fools." , The vedalken know it is not of this world, so they know that this world is not the only one. , "After the death of her mother, Cassia found that things that appear fragile can be very strong indeed."
—*Beyond the Great Henge* , "Forswear the flesh and you will truly see."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur , Silence rules Bala Ged, broken only by the skittering of Eldrazi. , Hunt without Nylea's leave and you may find yourself the next quarry. , "Who truly runs this city? Look to the sky on hallowed days, and see whose sigil is stamped clearly onto the heavens."
—Vuliev of the Ghost Council , "The blood of the weak shall be the ink with which we scribe great Yawgmoth's glorious name."
—Stronghold architect, journal , "Your seared flesh will be the first step in your journey to dark enlightenment." , The head of the staff doubles as a brand to anoint the newly inducted. , All seeds share a common bond, calling to each other across infinity. , In times of madness, people cling to the familiar, monstrous though it may be. , "The stone is more potent than ever. The flesh that creeps into our land will become even more slovenly and weak."
—Niclavs, archmage of Esper , ". . . Dry-walkers die
We feed on sweet flesh . . . ."
—*Rootwater Saga* , "That which is beautiful in form can also be deadly."
—Ishai, Ojutai dragonspeaker , "Begin with your escape and work backward."
—*Way of Secrets* , "Come on, Skitch, we'll lose them in the geyserfield." , "Give me your memories, and you will have release from the suffering they bring you." , "We are each other's shadow, fleeing yet always present." , "I see the weaknesses you hide even from yourself." , "The opponent who blocks the path, becomes the path."
—Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest , Initiates who had been through the Trial of Knowledge learned to see everything as pieces of a larger puzzle. , He wished for knowledge, but not for the will to apply it. , To consult a sphinx is a test in patience. Perhaps that's the point. , ". . . But I'm not tired!" , "Surely you know the joy of the hunt, my furry friend. My kind of hunt just takes a different form than yours." , "If you don't break camp as you leave, you'll return to find it broken for you."
—Jonald, mission naturalist , undefined , "whirrrr . . . beep . . . click . . . click?" , "It's gingerbread, like Mother makes. What is there to be afraid of?" , "Step right up! Try your hand! It'll thrill the senses and boggle the mind!" , Voska feared the artifact had come too easily. , No longer the village pariah. No longer taunted and shamed. Sigrun was finally free. , "Of all the things that can be stolen, opportunity is the most valuable." , A farewell to arms . . . and feet . . . and legs . . . , "Look! That is why we must never waver. That is what awaits us if we fail."
—Djeru, initiate of Tah crop , "Run away! It's an . . . um . . . run away!"
—Nomad sentry , Ashnod invented several torture techniques that could make victims even miles away beg for mercy as if the End had come. , "You are fortunate, my enemy. You have paid the price but once. I never stop paying." , Pass me from soul to soul, / soldier to herder, herder to beast, beast to soil / until I am everywhere. / Then pass me those souls.
—Totem inscription (translated) , It is the demon's mark, an infernal claim on the flesh of the guilty. , Flavorful aromas beckon many a salivating maw. , The giant's real punishment was the fleeting moment when he was allowed to stand before being dragged down to his knees again. , "Let them cry for mercy. The only one who can hear them is me."
—Siglind the Conqueror , "May you and all your kin waste and wither until your clan is no more!" , Sounds of life beckon many a restless soul. , "I do believe your heresy will prove more difficult now that you have more pressing concerns."
—Bishop Argust , "As long as I pull the strings, you will dance."
—Tezzeret , "Our world has not felt her thundering steps in lifetimes, but Marit Lage's presence is still with us."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest , The first step to peace is to learn how to forget. , Jingling coins beckon many an eager hand. , "Hunters feed on the fear of their prey."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , "Innocent thorns can fill the air with your bloodscent. Don't stray from the path."
—Elmut, crossway watcher , After seeing his life's work drip away, the mage decided it was a good time to go crazy. , "Purge the damned, for they have no place among the righteous!"
—Seeta of Thraben , When the moon rises and the bloodlust takes hold, nothing matters but the kill. , "May your veins weep, and may every vampire take notice."
—Stensian curse , Another imminent battle subsided in busy snuffling and carefree rooting. , "May you drink until you drown but never be sated."
—Odila, witch of Morkrut , Idle chatter beckons many an attentive ear. , Good health beckons many a vigorous follower. , "We must all push through the pain to heal our world."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric , "Paint gold upon the wind, Shape the wind into a shield, And vanish behind the brightness."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet , "We give the audience what they want."
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue , Silumgar delights in repurposing the treasures of other clans to serve his own ravenous greed. , "Keeping order is a task too important to relinquish in death."
—Abrado, Custodi priest , Goblins resolve disputes by splitting everything straight down the middle. , A bribe is always faster than filling out paperwork. , "The more kami that passed through the veil that separated them from our world, the weaker that veil became, threatening to tear into tatters at the slightest pressure."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , "You cannot bar the path of gods. You can only divert their journey for a while."
—Sensei Hisoka , Her blades slashed across the noble's shadow. He scoffed, then fell over dead. , "Our ambition drives us forward. Together we will claim what is ours, no matter who holds it." , Thus does nature assert herself. , The rampaging Roil creates life out of the most volatile elements. , The Izzet specialize in unnatural disaster. , A tomb-eye may remain shut for centuries. It opens when it sees a world as twisted and hollow as the wretch beneath its lid. , The ritual of plucking out an eye to gain future sight is but a curse that enables the living to see their own deaths. , The spoiled, gluttonous halls of the Orzhov teem with gaudy, needless wealth. Even their security measures are made for beauty first, efficiency second. , Every storm has an eye. , "The anger that festers inside this one is contagious."
—Anthousa of Setessa , The Champion armed herself to face the cyclops, heedless of her companions' despair. "How will you defeat it with only one spear?" asked young Althemone. The Champion raised her weapon. "It has but one eye."
—*The Theriad* , A single eye, blinded by rage. , From her sunsail tent high above the forest floor, an elf harkener can hear the footfalls of a single creature through the cacophony of Naya's jungle sounds. , "The sun shines bright upon the strong." , Phyrexia strives to simulate natural life, but it can't resist improving on the design. , "Though highly effective at reshaping flesh, these specially bred cytoplasts leave the subject reeking of omnibian mucus."
—Simic research notes , Its ventricles weep venom, and it consumes only poison. , "Keep coming. I have knives enough for everyone." , The Simic use the claws as scalpels, while the Rakdos use them for tattooing and torture. The Gruul use them to pick their teeth after lunching on the rest of the carcass. , One of the many reasons why open-air markets close at dusk. , "Coming down is the best part!" , "Our victories will protect a thousand generations." , What self-indulgence tears down, discipline builds up again. , "My power is as vast as the plains, my strength is that of mountains. Each wave that crashes upon the shore thunders like blood in my veins."
—Dakkon Blackblade, Memoirs , The bat thrives on what underestimates it. , "Cursed be the sickly forms that err from honest Nature's rule!"
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "Locksley Hall" , The darkness of his shield reflects the inky blackness of his soul. , The tiniest cough can be deadlier than the fiercest dragon. , A scorpion this big you won't find curled up in your boot. Maybe *around* your boot, but not *in* it. , Choices are rarely as simple as they seem. , His imagination soars from the depths of the sea to the heights of the heavens. , Ask your query and be on your way. Just don't look her in the eye. , "Silumgar's mind is a dark labyrinth, full of grim secrets and subtle traps."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth , "Quiet now, you dreadful vermin."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage , Eventually, mages learned to harness the power of natural damping fields and use it for their own ends. , The priests tried cursing it. The mages tried dispelling it. In the end, they all obeyed it. , A Thran relic, it has spent ten thousand years doing absolutely nothing. , "Only one man survived, barely sane. He got out two words before collapsing: shadows' shadows." , The Ojutai believe in the Great Wheel: those who best serve the dragonlord are destined to be reborn as dragons. , Devils sow chaos and reap panic. , A blade that has never known sheath, a hilt that has never known hand. , "Catch good today. Start replacing crew tomorrow."
—Faysal al-Mousa, fisher captain, log , "C'mon friend, take a turn tossing the knucklebones. What've you got to lose?"
—Tobias, trader of Erdwal , "I will protect the less fortunate. I will love bravely. I will face despair and fight on. As a Capashen, I can do no less." , "And the flamingos said, 'Get out of our nest—we can't be seen with the likes of you!' So, the griffin ate them."
—Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird" , Legend has it the darba gave up its wings in return for an extra stomach. , "With his dream of unification fulfilled, Darien became the last king of Kjeldor. Those who followed were known as the kings of New Argive."
—*Kjeldor: Ice Civilization* , "Darigaaz is the breath of the ur-dragon, burning away the burdens of mortality." , In front of every great wizard is a doomed apprentice. , No ancient lore ties the pirates of the Brazen Coalition to the Immortal Sun. But it's a powerful ancient artifact in a city of gold—what's not to covet? , Living so close to death gives the aetherborn an unusual perspective on risk. , Most warriors think in only two dimensions. Agnate and his metathran brethren were trained to battle in three. , "They'll never see me coming." , "The hard part isn't landing in the saddle. The hard part is leaping before you see it." , undefined , Honesty is the first casualty of war. , "It is the way of most wizards to begin by exiling themselves and to end by exiling everyone else."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , "The poacher's trade isn't monster parts. It's myth. People pay to be part of the fantasy."
—Kelsien, the Plague , "You're just like me: ruthless, cunning, and ambitious. Obviously you're a threat."
—Basarios the Blade , "I've seen your house, and you've been a lovely, if unwitting, host. But at last it's time for farewells." , Greatness, at any cost. , The first khans of the Sultai relied on the magic of the rakshasa to ensure the survival of the clan. , Eyes are unnecessary for seeing the future. , The eclipse made it clear whose side the sky was on. , When he began to curse what he held holy, his strength grew unrivaled. , "The soil here is rich with the rotting dead, and the sun's fingers barely penetrate the dark canopy. Plant our brethren here. This shall be our sanctuary."
—Savra , "At first we thought we were in some haunted wood. Then the branches twisted and scuttled toward us."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol , "Ah, this is a nice life. I can see why you were so desperate to keep it." , "Your mind is no longer yours to waste." , "In this dark place, yes, I *am* afraid of my own shadow."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , It shines in the darkness of its master's ambitions. , "Stray not onto the path of darkness, or be lost forever."
—Baki, wizard attendant , "If I must die, I will encounter darkness as a bride, / And hug it in mine arms."
—William Shakespeare,
*Measure for Measure* , Demons lurk in the shadows of ancient ruins, spreading plague and corruption across the land. , "Our greatest hope has become our enemy's greatest triumph."
—Court counselor , "As you breathe your last, understand why I accept such forbidden gifts."
—Purraj of Urborg , When the bog ran short on small animals, Ekri turned to the surrounding farmlands. , "Writhing tendrils of darkness stitched him back together. Though his will and body both were broken, the necromancer's magic would not let him rest."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire* , The murderer faced justice in the Azorius courts, but his soul was set free on a technicality. , "If there is such a thing as too much power, I have not discovered it."
—Volrath , Countless ghouls surged through Thraben's streets, and with them came the city's salvation. , At the edge of the Mephidross, Phyrexia's influence seeps into life and land. , Where the Mephidross leaches into the Quicksilver Sea, the waves writhe with necrogen. , "I was struck senseless for a moment, but revived when the strange curiosity I carried fell to the ground, screaming like a dying animal."
—Barl, Lord Ith , Heavier than it looks, tricky to wield, guaranteed to last. , Structures built from darksteel yield to neither assault nor age. , "It is as if this world has been expecting our blessings."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite , The ultimate treasure is one that guards itself. , "It reflects the purity of Mirrodin-that-was."
—Koth of the Hammer , One part unstoppable force, one part immovable object. , Infinitely powerless. , "If there can be no victory, then I will fight forever."
—Koth of the Hammer , "It's the last thing we can call our own."
—Minhu, Mirran resistance , Cabal clerics serve two masters: their patriarch and their god. , "After four thousand years, you learn to plan for betrayal."
—Urza , When you've got the temperament of a dragon, every argument is one you'll win. , Werewolf slayers don't know for certain how werewolves are created. So they kill all the wolves, just to be safe. , All that's left is the coronation. , "It is a rough road that leads to the heights of greatness."
—Seneca, *Epistles*, trans. Gummere , Murky Otarian tides hide the forgotten treacheries of the Phyrexian war. , "Do you thirst for knowledge no matter the cost?"
—Watnik, master glassblower , You might as well try to catch water with a net. , Although the Order frowned upon his preparations for the pits, behind closed doors most saw the fights as a necessary evil. , He lifts the spirits of his people so they may descend in wrath upon their foes. , His victories speak for him. , "Focus an enemy's mind on what's already gone, and it's easier to take away more."
—Holux, stronghold racketeer , "Those who say that Serra is dead have never met the Autumn Willow's daughters. They are as kind and as generous as Serra would wish us to be."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron , "I will wield the stone of my homeland as though it were the fists of the Ancestor." , In the chaos brought by the new gods, swift-winged aven served as pathfinders, leading the last of the people away from the ruins of Naktamun. , The Benalish aristocracy is hereditary, but the loyalty of its subjects is earned. , "The harder they try to extinguish my faith, the brighter it burns in the darkness." , Elspeth's squires do not seek advancement. For them, no knightly glory could surpass the glory of serving their champion. , "The people of Akros must learn from our leonin adversaries. If we match their staunch ferocity with our superior faith, we cannot fail."
—Cymede, queen of Akros , "Thieves and squid squirm the same way when you capture them." , "I've got a little surprise for you, beasties! Come and get it!" , In their twisted logic, to empty the shadow world is to escape it. , "The Dauthi army grows by screams and bounds."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary , "All dauthi are jackals, regardless of breed."
—Lyna, soltari emissary , "The dauthi came from beneath the ruins one night, and the darkness cast them in the best possible light."
—Soltari Tales of Life , "The dauthi believe they dignify murder by paying for it."
—Lyna, soltari emissary , "They have knives for every soul."
—Lyna, soltari emissary , Merfolk tell their young of Dandân, humans of Rag Man. Dal tell tales of the Dauthi, and they are far worse. , Avenant's archers are also trained as poets, so that each arrow is guided by a fragment of verse. , "One arrow keenly fired might prevent more battlefield wounds than I could treat." , "Go swiftly, clever arrow, and teach The philosophy of stillness."
—D'Avenant verse , Shadows coiled around the witness's mind. Then the moment vanished, leaving only the sting of its loss. , "Nyx may belong to the gods, but the skies of Theros are ours." , It was midnight on the Daru Plains, yet it seemed the sun was rising. , Is there a greater promise than the glory of the sunrise? , "It came to rest upon the angel's arm, and then the weight of their gazes fell upon me."
—Aeronaut's journal , "What we knew as Emeria, Ula, and Cosi were not divine beings at all, but a cruel trick, and a grave error."
—*The Invokers' Tales* , Dawnglove bloom is a potent nostrum, but the dawnglow brewed from its sap is nothing less than life itself. , After facing so many horrors, the survivors of Videns parish couldn't comprehend the hope that the gryff represented. , "As the sun rose behind the Bone Spire, an angel appeared over the charnel fields, bringing a surge of new hope."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire* , "To wage war, secure peace within yourself."
—Emmara , Their shots are fired most often as signals—or at those who didn't get the message. , Only Sylvok magic could truly capture the perfection of a Mirrodin sunrise. , Morning's mists can hide many things. , She crushes darkness beneath her charger's hooves. , "The numbers of Nyxborn among us have swelled. Is this a sign of the gods' favor, or does it portend something else?" , Silent as winter snow, it seeks wild places unspoiled by the walking dead. , The terrors of the Underworld travel alongside those who return to the mortal realm. , "May the light shine through me to guide the lost." , It's often mistaken for the coming dawn as it gallops across the horizon. , "Let the deception of the gods yield to the pure light of day."
—Brimaz, king of Oreskos , "Rise like the sun, stand like the mountain, charge like the lion, die as a hero."
—General Takeno , "I have seen planes leveled and all life rendered to dust. It brought no pleasure, even to a heart as dark as mine."
—Sorin Markov , "The night emboldens many monsters, but the mightiest will attack in broad daylight." , When Anafenza holds court under the First Tree, the gates of Mer-Ek are sealed. No safer place exists in all of Tarkir. , "The light of a felidar's horns can give even an Eldrazi pause."
—Zarra, lullmage , "Nothing ruins your day like a blazing zombie."
—Tahngarth , Some Golgari insects live for centuries—and they never stop growing. , Ending her life won't end the infestation. , Got a diving lesson
—Sultai expression meaning "was fed to the crocodiles" , "It seems there's even better hunting down here." , "Keep your friends close and your enemies within range." , "Welcome aboard, mate! You're going to need this." , "Up you go, you soggy rat." , Despite their noble heritage, the pirates of the Deadeye Fleet are known for underhanded tactics and despicable trickery. , "I'm back from the Dead," the zombie moaned. "And they were far out, man." , "He could handle any one of us, but he's no match for all of us!" , What could be more irresistible than death? , With his newfound sense of self-importance, Squee set his sights on ever-bigger bugs. , Even dragons fear its silken strands. , Otrimi was disappointed at how quickly its new friend got tired and stopped playing. , When the winds blow out of the abyss, death is the only harvest. , "Seclusion is only an option for the strong."
—Sorin Markov , "At last, silence."
—Tevesh Szat , Many venture out to hunt for treasures. Others lie in wait to hunt the hunters. , He's the unlife of the party. , You're only as dead as you feel. , "Beautiful, isn't it?" crowed Crovax. "They fought together. Now they will die together." , "Carrion! Keep your distance. My blade will come to you!"
—Crovax , "May the earth rise up to meet you." , "You're not my quarry, little one. I'm after whatever comes to investigate your cries."
—Kelsien, the Plague , "Commander, what's the signal to attack?"
"You'll know." , "They have forsaken their vows. The edict of the Circle demands their voices be silenced."
—Syr Tasdale, knight of Ardenvale , Until he got singed . . . , "Never forget our ancestors. They have not forgotten us."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch , For the necromancer barons, killing and recruitment are one and the same. , "The temple has been rededicated. It belongs to Mogis now."
—Rastos, disciple of Mogis , Deathbellow Canyon echoes with the roars of minotaurs calling each other to battle. , "Nature is not always gentle or kind, but all life begets life."
—Marwyn of Llanowar , There's no higher honor in Phyrexia than dying for Yawgmoth's glorious vision. , Suddenly, Eldo felt very alone. , The old hermit would never say what he fed his mushrooms, and people learned not to ask. , It vents the chill of the grave. , The swarm's million wings stir the foulest of breezes. , Death inevitably seduces all who study it. , "The hussars can't catch him, and he evades our traps with ease. I fear he walks unseen even in the halls of New Prahv."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct , After their worship of oni began, only a few of Kamigawa's ogres remained in the bitter cold of the Tendo Peaks. Most were drawn to the darkness of Takenuma. , Takenuma was filled with a chorus of moans, shrieks, and wails. Some came from the living, some from the dying, and some, most horribly, from the dead. , The crocodiles' putrid jaws swallow everything but the screams. , "Sometimes I come across a stone finger or foot and I know I'm in cockatrice territory."
—Rulak, bog guide , Your entire life passes before its eyes. , Plate mail, the skin of the chest, the rib cage, the heart—all useless against the mage who can reach directly for the soul. , "The bones of allies grant wisdom. The bones of enemies grant strength. The bones of dragons grant life eternal." , "Every forest is carpeted with the corpses of a thousand trees."
—Baron Sengir to Autumn Willow , "Size alone does not guarantee survival."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , "Ancient one, we have reached the promised shore. The Immortal Sun is near. Drink and awake." , "I should have died that day, but I suffered not a scratch. I awoke in a lake of blood, none of it apparently my own."
—*The War Diaries* , "Over and over it rose. Over and over we fell."
—Ganda, Goma Fada deserter , "Headed to the wilds? Beware the dead riders who serve the Shadow Queen."
—Scalan, Edgewall innkeeper , There are few ways to escape the deathmark: bargaining with a demon, washing in the fabled waters of youth, and of course, death. , Death is a secret he is willing to share. , "We had him cornered, we did . . . and, well, you know what they say about rats."
—Araba patrol survivor , The Cabal breeds many things for the pit fights, but it never breeds compassion. , "Kill them all and feed them to the new recruits."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar , As the sludge below began to shift and take shapes, Gerrard turned from the railing to Orim. "I suppose," he said, "it's a little too late for prayer, isn't it?" , "All who set foot in Paliano are pawns in someone's play for power."
—Marchesa, the Black Rose , "It's cold in the grave, and the dead crave your warmth. Who are you to deny them?"
—Strava, Dimir mage , The faint smell of cloves, the rustling of the wind, and a paralyzing descent into an airless, fathomless tomb. , Life has always been a dance. It is only fitting that death sing the tune. , Infested with vermin, ever hungering, dropping from night's sky. , "Such innocent little birds. They sing a sweet song, sitting on their fragile branch."
—Grandmother Sengir , "We traffic in flesh, not souls. Still, it's a shame to let anything go to waste."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman , "They say nothing lasts forever. I say everything lasts forever, just not in the form you may be accustomed to."
—Vraska , The shadow of the candle looms tall even as its light grows dim. , For a sharp second, Selenia froze, and Crovax's blade found home. As the angel shattered like glass, Crovax felt his mind collapse—the curse had been fulfilled. , "Sometimes, a soul is not ready to complete its journey to the next world."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest , "Watch death wait / Wait, death, watch / Steal breath swiftly / but steal life slowly."
—Suq'Ata dirge , Leukin stared at the smoldering angel feathers. "Run!" he screamed to his patrol. "We don't stand a chance!" , He wished for power, but not for the longevity to abuse it. , "If weakness does not exist within the Temur then we shall force it upon them."
—Sidisi, khan of the Sultai , "I killed him because I had to," Starke lied to Gerrard. "But now I pledge my loyalty to you." , One moment, conscious only of a sense of repose. The next moment, hearing the trudge of his own footsteps. He sighed and squinted into the glare ahead. , "You may not be able to pay. But you can still kneel."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate , By design, the sarcophagus muffles the debtors' moans but does not silence them. , Some of Orzhov's cruelest collectors remember their debtors by taste alone. , Believing they wrote the forged letter that had been stolen from Zhou Yu, Cao Cao rashly executed his two best admirals for treason. , Anarchy comes in many forms: social, individual, Gruul . . . , Mycosynth grew unfettered beneath the black lacuna, metastasizing into a matrix of noxious energy. , "Eyes see only what is possible. A trained mind can explore the impossible."
—Kefnet, god of knowledge , The message was clear to Sorin—Nahiri had paid Markov Manor a visit. , Every story, even a faerie tale, comes to an end. , "If you think yourself a chief, then prove your might."
—Gar-Tun, Mistvalley silverback , Progress leads to inspiration. , "A key weakness in the design is its vulnerability to repeated, forceful blows." , "Sheesh! How am I supposed to make a decent living around here?"
—Cabal grave robber , "Nothing in this world, not even magic, likes to be caged." , The oddsmakers hate him because every fight is a foregone conclusion. The crowd loves him for exactly the same reason. , The awards and medals of polis-dwellers mean nothing to griffins, but they repay acts of generosity. , "We'll distract them. The rest of you, get out of here!"
—Alux, Skysail defender , "If he's so willing to suffer for his cause, then by all means, let us oblige him."
—Cabal Patriarch , "The specimen seems to be broken." , The rivers can no longer provide safe passage for travelers and commerce. They serve only as highways for raiders and channels for blood and woe. , "There are deep, deep places in this world that have long burned hot with little regard for the whitening of the earth's thin skin."
—Sek'Kuar, Deathkeeper , For cryomancers, studying the Ice Age isn't just an academic exercise. , Its graceful glide paints the ocean floor with strokes of luminescence. , "No good will come from what you seek. Turn back now or suffer an ignoble death far from your home." , "You think I stand alone? I have the forest at my call, the waters at my back. I outnumber you." , "We breathe from our soul and bones to give strength to the jungle. The jungle breathes from its roots and rivers to give strength to us."
—Shaper Falani , A visit to the Deeproot Tree and its ancient spring replenishes a merfolk's connection to nature. , The rift remained open for days, sluicing ancient seawater. It closed only after the last great tentacle squirmed its way through. , Sailors fear the deep-sea serpent; others thank the gods it has no legs. , After stripping the sunken ships, it rises to the surface for another helping. , Do not disturb. , "My success at navigating the Dark Meanders irritates the Inkfathom school. They consider themselves peerless divers, but I try to remind them that they cannot own commodities like bravery and cunning." , "Watch the waves too long, and you may never look away."
—Meletian proverb , His drums echo Deepwood's heartbeat. , They'd guarded the Henge so long that they were as attuned to the powerstones as they were to the trees. , They feed on the living to stay undead. , A single tantiv is just as dangerous as a herd. , The jhovalls are depleting its food sources, the Mercadians are eroding its home, and you're wondering why it's angry? , "Leave no stone unturned."
—Ruric Thar , Once vampires are disarmed, they're given wooden swords and forced to assist in the training of Midnight Duelists. , "Wars are decided one life at a time."
—Gvar Barzeel, Kolaghan warrior , Nothing gets by her . . . except the evidence, the motive, and the culprit. , Some knights will not follow orders—only disorder. , "It is not my place to question Radiant's rule. I exist to enforce her will." , The defenders said not a word. Their shields, spears, and stances were warning enough. , It lights up the sky, beckoning enemies only to repel them. , "Your enemies will pound upon the door of your defenses, but only you shall have the key, and it is the key of life."
—*Song of All*, canto 873 , "Only on the battlefield can we repay all the Order has given us." , "It isn't for fighting. It's for when the fighting's gone bad."
—Kara Vrist, Mirran resistance , "Despite their bravado, mortals are fragile. If Zendikar is to endure, its lords must save it."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief , "I lost one home when Yavimaya was destroyed. I will not lose another." , There were those who saw the death of the gods and the city's collapse as a final test of worth. Some believed it meant the God-Pharaoh had been killed. Only a few realized they had been deceived. , "I have no clan, but I still have purpose." , "I didn't survive that crash just so I could fall to the likes of you." , "My family was saved thanks to a single Boros soldier. It's why I joined the Legion. I will be the protector now." , The only shortcut in a bog is to the bottom. , "Stray not into sin, lest you face the doorman of an insatiable tomb."
—Prayer of Asha , Serra's living warriors looked on in horror. "Where is our Lady now?" they cried. , Archmage attacks are little more than annoyances to Kalamax. , The golden rule of revenge: Do unto others what they tried to do unto you. , "With spy thopters all around, how can the consuls be so blind to Tezzeret's manipulations?"
—Gideon Jura , Some Serul Cove rogues traffic in stolen sigils, which fetch a high price from those who would rather pay for honor than earn it. , Gisela cornered the murderous demon among the graves of the dead villagers. "A fitting end," she murmured as she raised her sword. , On every plane in the Multiverse, there is magic, and someone is using it to fly. , "There is no true equity of power. There is only more and less." , The more pleasant an illusion's garb, the more indecent its form laid bare. , The viashino used the spell to dry foods for crossing the Great Desert. The Suq'Ata later discovered its use in war. , "It is done."
—Elspeth , "His skin cuts swords."
—*The Seer's Parables* , History is the study of repetition. , "I can't see all that the future holds, but I can keep us one step ahead of death." , "Where is it written that beasts must cause pain?"
—Delif, *Ponderings* , "click . . . click . . . whirrrr . . . beep." , There came a rush, a sudden fire in the mind. Then the two saw only the sooty fog of madness, heard only the crackling of their last thoughts burning away. , It wears the souls of its victims like jewels on a chain. , "From the sea came all life, and to the sea it will return. The sooner the better."
—Emperor Aboshan , When nothing but second best will do. , undefined , A knight's devotion to their steed goes only so far. , "When terror outweighs all other thoughts, they will understand that I am the true Father of Machines."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane , "His laugh, a bellowing, deathly din, slices through the heavens, making them bleed."
—*The Seer's Parables* , "For every inch of land they take from us, we take it back or we burn it. Give them nothing."
—Aurelia , "Morality is just shorthand for the constraints of being powerless."
—Ob Nixilis , Created to destroy Dominiaria, demons can sometimes be bent to a more focused purpose. , "The greatest works of literature leave the reader forever altered."
—Nevinyrral, Urborg tyrant , Which is the greater folly, summoning the demon or expecting gratitude from it? , Subservience to greater power is the only law in the pit. , Beware the generosity of demons. , In the Cabal, death is just another mark of devotion. , It comes off as easily as your own skin. , A pit yawned open, a column of oily smoke arose, and a towering form hissed, "I accept this offering." , The locks on the cages of the damned are opened with keys of marrow, sinew, and blood. , Hatred is a potent ally, but an insatiable master. , Taborax's cultists are the latest in a long line of history of beings who have desired to see Zendikar torn to pieces. , "Take what solace you can in the knowledge that you will not be here to witness Zendikar's demise."
—Ob Nixilis , "May these deaths be the first of many." , Its curve mimics the twists of life and death. , They knock 'em dead, with or without the punch line. , Using a spine to break a slave's back appeals to the Grixis sense of irony. , There's no greater honor than joining your chosen guild, and no greater shame than failing it. , "The River Heralds carve spells into jade, hoping to steer us from our course. But what right do they have to keep us from that which once was ours?" , "Don't worry about it. It happens to every mage sooner or later." , According to merfolk legend, a denizen of the deep swallows the horizon at the end of each day, bringing on the cold blanket of night. , The orochi learned how to move swiftly and surely along the forest floor, like fish darting through gull-watched waters. , "Big plants not only good for hidin', but full o' tasty bugs, too."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand , When all logical solutions fail, try an illogical one. , "The third wind of ascension is Eliminator, clearing Keld's path to victory."
—*Keld Triumphant* , "A great wave crashed, and a mighty wind blew out the stars."
—*The Cosmogony* , Gideon and Liliana may not have seen eye to eye, but that did not stop them from fighting side by side. , "We will descend upon you like a plague of locusts to purge you from our lands!"
—Hirov, commander of the Thousand Swords , "That would have brought shame to you as a mage. Tell you what—I'll keep your secret."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage , Pockets full of gold, lungs full of brine. , Butcher's training, warrior's heart. , "Everyone deserves a day in court." , "Garl, adjust the slurry dispensers. Garl, fetch more corpses. Garl, quit crying and give me your brain tissue. If he doesn't stop being so rude, I'm quitting." , Cast out by his village, he now takes grim offense at refugees who seek shelter in his forest. , "When you confront a wolf scorned by its pack, extra caution is the order of the day."
—Raf Gyel of the Quiver of Kessig , "Strength it has, but at the cost of a continuous supply of energy. Such failure can bear only one result."
—Execution order of Endrek Sahr, master breeder , "The blood of Kiyomaro flows in my veins. He did not let Eiganjo fall and neither shall I." , "Soramaro speaks through me. Listen! And I will tell the wisdom of the ancestors." , Above the cries, a phrase rang out: "You will all be saved." , The stairs lead down in both directions. , Dragons emerge from tempests fully formed and terribly hungry. , "The land is swollen with mana, cursed relics, and secrets. If you puncture it, you never know what will burst out."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter , The grave robbers were startled, for the door to the mausoleum was already open. , Its precious corpses dance like puppets to attract mindless nim prey. , "The gods think of us as insects. Perhaps there is wisdom in that."
—Perisophia the philosopher , Loose earth is not a burial but an appetizer. , The endless expanse of desert surrounding Naktamun sometimes yields threats that the gods themselves must answer. , Never doubt a dragon just because of its size. , A monument to long-forgotten gods, it stands as a tribute to the fleeting nature of human ways. , In Akros, the penalty for running from battle is one night's stay in the Deserter's Quarters. , First the insult, then the injury. , While pursuing the remnants of Yuan Shao's forces into the Wuhan Desert, Cao Cao was temporarily turned back by a fierce sandstorm. , Massive, mindless, and imbued with one terrible purpose. , "The nature of this plane makes it almost too easy for me to command the dead."
—Liliana Vess , A lonely sentinel facing gales, hurricanes, and tides of homicidal spirits. , "Kill a creature, destroy the present. Kill the land, destroy the future."
—Kaervek , "With precise coordination and enough blood spilled, one can be driven off, even brought down. But two . . . that's a lot of blood."
—Munda, ambush leader , Liliana whispered to whatever consciousness Oketra and Bontu had left. "You are the gods. He is the usurper. You know what to do" , A pirate crew without a ship is a crew that will do anything to get one. , "Lieutenants dishonored, corpses carted home; The general raises troops again to take revenge." , Ravnica held its breath as the hero of the resistance—their last hope—flew through the sky, his dark sword ready to strike a god. , Her mind was quite gone, yet she spoke nothing but truth. , At the Akroan gates, hoplites revived the tactics of Kytheon Iora's infamous irregulars. , "You have returned from fire, traitor. This time I will see you leave as ashes."
—Zurgo, to Sarkhan Vol , Nothing could grow where the vile smoke had been, and no one could breathe it and live. , Rats and vultures devour. It desecrates. , "click . . . click . . . beep . . . whirrrr . . ." , "We were not meant to have such terrible things. They should be left where we found them, if not destroyed!"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic , Everyone knew the Dimir had done the damage. Everyone suspected the Izzet had hired them. , "I love digging. It gives me lots of time to think about how much I love digging." , Stage two of the Phyrexian invasion included the complete alteration of Dominaria's landscape. , The end of the world rarely comes quietly. , "Stoke a fire hot enough and you'll never run out of things to burn."
—Xenagos, the Reveler , "I don't think they'll appreciate my . . . adjustments."
—Karavin, renegade saboteur , Red sky at night, dragon's delight. , After countless attacks on the Salt Road where it passes through the frozen tundra, the Abzan began to refer to the area as Atarka territory rather than Temur lands. , Bind the mind rather than the wrist, and you stop the intent to harm before it starts. , Its light exposes enemies and lays secrets bare. , The goblins have forty-two different words for "ow." , "He bears the marks of ages upon his skin, memories of dreams long dead and best left buried."
—*The Seer's Parables* , "You're willing to die for your homeland. I'm willing to kill for it."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer , Kamahl dreams of storms of fire. , Things born in magma are always angry. , There is much talk about the art of creation. What about the art of destruction? , It's hard to argue with a force made of divine will. , "You just need the right incentive to fulfill my dreams." , A devil's hands are never idle. , "The city is overrun. I would say burn it to the ground, but that won't be necessary."
—Inquisitor Delmund , On expeditions through Ashmouth, the hunters of Devilthorn Lodge rely on the cleverness of foxes to counteract the mischief of devils. , First, dispose of the evidence. Then dispose of your knowledge of the disposal. , "This is Mileva, in the Tenth. We've got an elf in the plaza with a chip on her shoulder. Actually, it's more of a morningstar." , Her eyes blaze with the strength of twenty shields. Every glance is a salvation. , "Mana lurks in all things, even in the depths of one's own heart." , The heart's courage is the soul's guardian. , Deep within Eiganjo Castle lay the Palace of Infinite Halls, a seemingly endless network of corridors once guarded by a seemingly endless legion of samurai. , When Rhonas fell, his followers stirred with newfound strength—a final gift from a god they thought indomitable. , It slips silently through the still waters of the Labyrinth of Memories to feed. , His twisted mind concluded that if he was what he ate, and he wanted to stay human, . . . , Ob Nixilis had prepared for every eventuality—except Chandra Nalaar. , "Full fathom five thy father lies;/ Of his bones are coral made;/ Those are pearls that were his eyes;/ Nothing of him that doth fade,/ But doth suffer a sea-change/ Into something rich and strange." —William Shakespeare, *The Tempest* , There's no crisis a hellion can't make worse. , "Even your shadow is too foul to tolerate." , Their arrival is heralded by the deafening hum of ten thousand wings. Their departure is marked by the silence of the dead. , "Feel the burn of the mists. Master them. They will devour your enemies."
—Geth, keeper of the Vault , "By Avacyn's decree, we shall cleanse these relics of their demonic past." , "It is not punishment. I am simply making things as they should be."
—Sephara, Sky's Blade , The notes themselves are irrelevant. The music's effect, however, is worth ten armies. , A prayer to bring demons to their knees. , "Goddess, grant us light to banish the world's shadows."
—Prayer to Kamsa , Discipline wears many robes. , The Cho-Arrim fought Mercadia's decadence with more than just swords. , Only in dew from Oona herself is there clarity enough to see a victim's mind. , Baral's spies always have the latest technology. , "Always give your foes a choice when they have none."
—Ob Nixilis , "The bolts of our ballistae smashed into the monstrous thing, but our hopes died in our chests as its gears continued turning."
—Sevti Mukul, The Fall of Alsoor , "There are some secrets so dark no human mind should ever contain them. Interested?"
—Nefarox, Overlord of Grixis , The wise always keep an ear open to the whispers of power. , "I have seen the true path. I will not warm myself by the fire—I will become the flame."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , "That such delicate creatures could become so powerful in the embrace of winter is yet more proof that I am right."
—Heidar, Rimewind master , "A pretty toy. Now show me its tactical applications."
—Telim'Tor , When it passes, rainbows follow. , "I take no pleasure in your suffering, but it is necessary. Once you accept your fate you'll find eternity more tolerable." , "In our war Heliod gave mortals some favor, yet other times he withheld aid. Are we still no more than game pieces to him?"
—Polyxene the Doubter , "I refuse to let the folly of mortals endanger the home I made for them." , "Knowledge is cruel. It will break your heart and test your allegiances. Are you certain you want this curse?" , Iroas and Mogis are as different in appearance as they are in personality. , "Play the song of he who delivered us. Play the song of Feroz."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman , "If you're in our home, we expect you to mind your manners." , "When the time comes, let go. Nothing lasts forever." , "The hive shimmered, and its walls seemed a living mirror."
—Hastric, Thunian scout , No matter how deep the treasure is buried, Hunter can always sniff it out. , Archaeologists don't just dig in the dirt. They excavate time, scraping off the years grain by grain. , Everything seems a little less ferocious when it's running from a house cat. , "Dangerous to recognize. Deadly not to."
—Lazav , It waits in the chill of the undercity, holding nameless secrets for those who dare to touch it. , Other guilds demand tolls from those who travel their territories, but not House Dimir. It takes its share secretly, one coin purse at a time. , "Fear not. Your life will not go unlived." , In the cold corridors of the undercity, misinformation unfurls from Duskmantle like a spreading stain. , The letters arrive, all sealed and read. , A key that slips through every lock. , "Wear this, and take your place among the shadows—wise, lethal, and unseen."
—Ivrelya, Dimir spymaster , An emblem of a secret guild, the Dimir insignia is seen only by its own members—and the doomed. , Just assume every conversation is on record. , Legend has it that the world was hatched from a dingus egg. , "A sharp conscience is the weapon of the soul."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , Vengeance in stampede form. , "Aye, the foul beast chomped me, but I got away. You'd best believe when I find it again, it won't get away so easy." , If you're in the way of a ceratops charge and you're made of mere flesh and bone, then you're not really in the way. , "Welcome to the Dimir Public Offices. Not responsible for death or loss of property. Basement off-limits."
—Sign outside Dinrova Building , "Our emissaries are gifted negotiators."
—Alesha, Who Smiles at Death , Orcs are happiest under captains who steer toward battle. Orcs of the Dire Fleet are downright jovial. , Among the pirates of the Brazen Coalition, the only thing more dangerous than failure is success. , The buccaneers scaled the sides of buildings as easily as they boarded enemy ships. , His fists fume with the decay of death, each strike a plague on the hearts of his enemies. , Though its mind has long since rotted away, it wields a sword with deadly skill. , "At least this one still has arms and legs. Well, most of its legs."
—Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia , "I will preserve human life at all costs. I will stand alone against behemoths before I let them touch my city. I will hold the wall."
—Oath of the Coppercoats , "It's amazing how scared a city kid can get at a dog. Now, of course, I'd cross Terisiare alone, and keep no watch if I had a pack of greys hanging on my flanks as I went."
—Oddveig Ulfsson, caravan scout , Few of Rath's rivers follow a steady course, so many new channels are carved for them. , "The foul entities of the Uuserk swamp had never before dared to spread their influence to the very heart of Zhalfir."
—Hakim, Loreweaver , "How easily your flames are quenched."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance , If at first you don't succeed, run away and hide. , "Baral took my family from me back then. I'd do anything to face him now."
—Chandra Nalaar , "Be thankful I left you your clothes." , "Lord Bolas has shown me how each miserable little life holds untold resources." , Dread was as foreign to her as the landscape ahead. , The demon Griselbrand dared to stand against Avacyn, earning him the loathing of thousands and the admiration of a few. , When no birds are available, Kangee's disciples fill the sky with anything that's willing to fight. , A religious order for religious order. , The lantern he carried did not light his way—it signaled his approach. , "You pray to Freyalise, but she cannot hear your pleas. It is Tevesh Szat who will claim your soul." , "Selesnya thinks nature is a pretty plaything. True nature would rip their faces off and wear their skins as trophies." , He stands in the shadow of his lord, Geth, drinking in the dark energies of the Vault. , "I said 'pick his brain,' not 'tear off his head.'"
—Riptide Project researcher , The death of the party. , "Laws apply only to those who lack the vision to see past them." , Rath is a disease all its inhabitants carry. , "We thought we found the victim's clothes lumped in the street. As it turned out, it was the victim, insides sucked out—just a sack of skin and robes."
—Agrus Kos , "Mangara is gone. Who among you doubts that I have taken his power?"
—Kaervek , "From legend it was forged, and to legend it returns." , "If we've run out of warm bodies, then cold bodies will have to do."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen , "Let this serve as a reminder of your failure."
—Exdratha, bog witch , "People would sooner savor sweet lies than chew plain truths."
—Lazav , "Two magi could trade spells all day and never crown a victor. The real battle is not one of power but of will. If your confidence breaks, so too shall you."
—Venser , "If only the living were so easily salvaged."
—Memnarch , "What cannot be destroyed will be bound, but do try to destroy it the first time"
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors , "You serve Phyrexia. Your pieces would better serve Phyrexia elsewhere."
—Azax-Azog, the Demon Thane , "There is nothing you can do that I cannot simply deny."
—Ertai, wizard adept , "You trust in the shadows of a breeze."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage , "Burn. Burn. Keep. Burn". , "Fire hurts them almost as much as the chaos that follows. Almost."
—The Western Paladin , "If it has a brain, even a primitive one, we can most surely scramble it."
—Garild, merfolk mage , Long after death, the spirits of the Disowned continue to seek redemption among their Abzan kin. , Venser wondered if it could still be called a teleportation spell if the destination is oblivion. , "I said we should destroy the Eldrazi. Ugin wanted to return them to stasis. Ugin's arguments were . . . unconvincing."
—Jace Beleren , "I find its symmetry pleasing. It rids our world of offensive refuse while disposing of itself."
—Dolomarus, Proctor of the Clean , The Accorders never strike first, but they always strike back. , "Maybe next time." , As renegade forces closed in on the Aether Spire, Consulate blockades failed one by one. , It's pointless to hold on when you have nothing to hold on with. , "Like the seas, the Æther is fickle and ever-changing. If we can control one, we can master the other."
—Riptide Project director , "I'll see you soon, Subjects 25 and 26. I've got a good feeling this time!" , The sea respects no boundaries, least of all the coast. , Without the viziers to oversee their actions, some anointed went to extreme lengths to fulfill their directives. , Teferi wanted no part of Urza's battle plans, but both agreed the Phyrexian portal must be closed. , Dinner and politics don't mix. , "True power is controlling not only the hearts of your subjects, but their minds as well." , Vedalken weapons sold to outsiders are as dependable as the vedalken themselves. , "Show weakness to hide your strength." , "Teferi is a problem student. Always late for class. No appreciation for constructive use of time."
—Barrin, progress report , "It came on as quickly as taking in a breath of air. Cathars who had fought shoulder to shoulder were at each other's throats. They were not themselves."
—Halmig, Order of Saint Traft , "When all doubts have melted away, the worthy will meet the Hour of Eternity and earn a place at the God-Pharaoh's side."
—*The Accounting of Hours* , "This abomination never belonged in our world. I'm merely setting it free."
—Dierk, geistmage , "Strike me once, shame on you. Strike me twice . . . Well, let's just see if you can."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent , "You thought only the gods could stop you?" , Oona's song is like a twisted dinner chime. All the faeries return home, but it is Oona who feasts—on the stolen dreams and rumors they serve her. , "The fleeting shadows of his primitive self have all but vanished."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur , "The Eye altering alters all."
—William Blake, "The Mental Traveller" , Gerrard savored a grim smile as the Phyrexian portals disappeared behind the *Weatherlight*. , "Of course I'm sure I've gone mad. The little man who crawled out of my eye was quite clear on this." , "The route is direct but challenging. Incidentally, how are you with heights?" , "Your graves will lie beneath my final nest." , Justice flies swiftly on angry wings. , "Seeing the river is not the same as seeing the fish." , Nature has forgotten its own rules. , "It's the oldest trick in the book," said Guff. "And I ought to know—I wrote it." , "What's the fun of being a wizard if you can't mess with people's heads?" , Flittersprites collect unusually valuable things: coins of fallen empires, baby teeth, and memories of treasured names. , "The stars mark your destiny. May you accept the fate thus divulged." , Ravnica's defenders watched in horror as Oketra's shot pierced the body of the pegasus. Gideon tumbled through the air, Blackblade in hand. , With an armory of light, even the squire may champion her people. , "Phyrexia is an unforgiving place, and I am an angry lord in an unforgiving mood."
—Lord Windgrace , "The Phyrexians are vulnerable. Do not despair. We will prevail!"
—Juryan, rebel leader , "Serra's light isn't easily extinguished."
—Reya Dawnbringer , Survival of the purest. , "To the undiscerning eye, justice and vengeance can look the same."
—Rashida Scalebane , "I see it taunting me whenever I close my eyes."
—Nayrex Slipfinger, master thief , Sentience is its natural habitat. , Their whispered prayers rally the nomads better than any war cry could. , Glory surged through her and radiance surrounded her. All things were possible with the blessing of the Divine. , Cunning warriors and dim-witted beasts alike fall under the church's harsh judgment. , The angels appreciated the offer but politely declined to eat any birdseed. , To outrace the griffin
—Kipamu expression meaning "to do the impossible" , "She spoke of mystery and portent, of such unfathomable things that my mind screamed for pity."
—*The Seer's Parables* , "When I cut down my angel I only started my fall."
—Crovax , "I was promised an afterlife, not this. Samut was right. The God-Pharaoh lied."
—Djeru, former Tah-crop initiate , "When I wish to be strong, I train. When I wish to be wise, I study. When I wish to rest, I start again." , The winds of change have a mind of their own. , Once they learn the trick of carrying their own lamps, they never touch the ground again. , undefined , "A small price to keep such pretty things safe." , The relationship between hunter and hunted knows nothing of alliances. , There is no shelter from this storm, its rain of fists, or the thunderous cackles of bloodlust. , Lorwyn's stones resonate with the place from which they were hewed. Though taken far, still they call to their home when silence is upon the land. , "Sit. Fetch. Devastate." , "I've come to reclaim what is mine. And you, Greven, are mine."
—Volrath , Since they haven't seen their original master for millennia, golems are eager to take orders from anyone. , "Nothing is truly your own. It is his, whether you know it or not."
—*The Seer's Parables* , "When civilization teeters on the brink, I'll be there to kick it the rest of the way." , "Good girl." , Campus pranksters initiate new students with the old "beeble bomb" routine. , The void is without substance but cuts like steel. , "Remember me not as I am, but as I should have been." , There is only one fate left to those banished from the God-Pharaoh's city. , Many necromancers share the same last words—the ones that conclude the undeath ritual. , He vowed he would never rest until he reached his destination. He doesn't know how right he was. , "This place has outlived its usefulness."
—Nicol Bolas , In the end, death usually has its way. , It eats and eats until the juiciest morsel it can find is itself. , Crippling fear precedes it. A foul stench accompanies it. Death follows in its wake. , The sound of every twisted secret tempts you to hear another. , One piercing stare usually convinces thieves to go elsewhere. , "All memory of your existence will be wiped from reality. You will die, and no one will mourn."
—Memnarch , "Each year that passes rings you inwardly with memory and might. Wield your heart, and the world will tremble." , "It triggers the hive's period of Ætheric fertility—a time when even feeding is a lower priority than reproduction."
—Rukarumel, field journal , As Dosan's chant grew in volume, a second, deeper voice rose up in harmony behind it, strong enough to shake the earth and yet vibrant enough to fill the spirit. , "Each night as Master Dosan prays to the kami, the hate he receives in return withers his body a little more. Though the kami are slowly killing him, still he continues his prayers."
—Meditation journal of a young budoka , First the insult, then the encore. , If at first you don't succeed, hit them again. , "You're in for a nasty butt-kickin'." , "I'm facing defeat, . . ." , In a duel and taking a lickin' . . . , Players that don't read flavor text aren't too bright, sorta smell, and dress funny. But let's just keep this between us, okay? They can get kind of violent. , They feared each other for their differences but were absolutely terrified at their similarities. , The wizard exclaimed, "I'm no chicken . . . ." , "But next time we meet, . . ." , "Your eyes aren't playing tricks on you. I am." , What's scarier than one of every beast in the forest? , The cube's surface is pockmarked with jagged runes that seem to shift when unobserved. , "Share your devotion with me." , The academy's libraries were protected by fire-prevention spells. Even after the disaster, the books were intact—though forever sealed in time. , The Mardu warrior was overjoyed when Tasigur set him free and granted him passage through the jungle. He failed to notice the Sultai leader's cruel smile. , The party of Rakdos revelers cackled and capered as the thing approached. It hissed, and they jabbed their torches at it, giggling when it recoiled. Then, one by one, the torches went out—and the screaming began. , Dovin ticked the Planeswalkers off on his fingers: himself, Domri, Kaya, Ral, Vraska . . . and Bolas made an even six. , It was made for battle, but that doesn't mean it's unsophisticated. , "We're finished here." , "I see you've learned nothing, Chandra. You'd still put a match to something rather than understand it." , "The sky holds vast oceans. They are at your fingertips if you know how to call them."
—Talrand, sky summoner , undefined , He combs the streets looking for the lost light, the discarded enigmas of the city. , "There is no gain without sacrifice."
—Icatian proverb , "If I am to die, I will die in the embrace of an immeasurable flame." , Drafna, founder of the College of Lat-Nam, could create a working model from even the smallest remnants of a newly unearthed artifact. , The barbarians of Jund believe the bottomless tar pits extend forever into other, darker worlds. , "Look there—they carry that one upon a sedan chair. It must be their leader. Wait . . . Oh! Perhaps not."
—Kaeda, aven scout , In their hunger for the arch's power, mages often forget that it only makes dragons easier to summon. It doesn't make them easier to control. , He has spent years training his eyes and ears to detect the subtle signs of a dragon's approach. , A single drop turns skin to scale and fist to claw. , Dragon birth lairs are littered with treasure to entice the young from their eggs. , Those who believed the city of Kroog would never fall to Mishra's forces severely underestimated the might of his war machines. , Atarka goblins meet their demise as readily as their Temur counterparts did, but usually under big, winged shadows. , "Those dragons grow fast. For a while they feed on squirrels and goblins and then suddenly you're missing a mammoth."
—Hurdek, Mazar mammoth trainer , "Dromoka has taught me the secrets of her kind, that I might use them in her service." , Swarms thrive in its nest, feeding on leathery bits of discarded wing. , The idols were forged during the time of the Khanfall, when the dragons came to rule Tarkir and its people aligned themselves with the five dragonlords. , Dromoka's followers forsake blood ties so that they may join a greater family. , Silumgar never passes up an opportunity to add to his opulence. , Atarka serving-goblins coat themselves with grease imbued with noxious herbs, hoping to discourage their ravenous masters from adding them to the meal. , "Yes, it's huge and strong and breathes fire. But we're smart!"
—Tadith the Wise, last words , "With no further options, I was forced to don the mask."
—Rashida Scalebane , "This world will be ruled by its rightful sovereigns, not these hideous pretenders." , "Dragons in the skies of Tarkir—for the first time, it feels like my home."
—Sarkhan Vol , Dragons erupt from peaks of chaos and flow from rivers of molten rage. , "When we were lost and weary, the ainok showed us how to survive. They have earned the right to call themselves Abzan, and to wear the Scale."
—Anafenza, khan of the Abzan , "Dragons seek war. I bring it to them." , Bears are a delicacy for the Atarka. The few that remain are the toughest of their species. , "If there is a fire that never ceases to burn, it surely lies in the maw of a dragon."
—Sarkhan Vol , Even the humblest guard of Ojutai's strongholds ponders the puzzles of the Great Teacher's lessons. , The penultimate step of the ritual involves bathing in a delicious glaze. , When the Planeswalker Angrath called dinosaurs "dragons," the name stuck in certain pirate circles. , The farther he roamed from Jund and its dragons, the more he felt their essence in himself. , "We speak the dragons' language of flame and rage. They speak our language of fury and honor. Together we shall weave a tale of destruction without equal." , "The Ancestor Dragon appeared atop the clouds, amid shattering mountains and sundering earth."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue , "When the skies are filled with flames, the brave shall step forward to quench them."
—Order prophecy , Dragons come not in packs or in herds but in storms. , "We are the flicker of the flame and its heat, the two sides of a single blade." , What once soared high above Tarkir is now reduced to a seat. , "O to be a dragon . . . of silkworm size or immense . . ." —Marianne Moore, "O to Be a Dragon" , The more you struggle against death, the tighter its grip becomes. , Some took to their boats to escape the unfolding nightmare. The remains of their vessels now litter the shores of Nephalia. , When times are tough, the poor eat the rats. When times are tougher, the rats eat the poor. , Trows have learned that it's not wise to eat cinders without a bucket or two of water nearby. , "Falconry? A fine sport I suppose, if you're attracted to the frailty of birds."
—Trivaz, Izzet mage , There is beauty in the space between learning to fly and taking it for granted. , "If you want to truly test your survival skills, walk the Obelisk Path when the drakes are feeding."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop , "A strange skull was turned up by an Ephran farmer's plow. I traded a copper ring for the 'ox skull.' It resonates of the sea and danger."
—Isel, master carver , Cautious not to repeat Vig's mistakes, the Simic fuse life essences using magic alone. Each result is called a krasis. , "Spread out, you idiots! Spread out!"
—Marsden, party leader, last words , "Don't you agree that mogg intellects are improved by zombification?"
—Lord Dralnu , Some things aren't worth waiting for. , "I never thought I'd be so glad to see two tons of beak and claws bearing down on me at the speed of an arrow."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar , "Nobody asked you to butt in, Jace. But thanks."
—Chandra Nalaar , "If our former masters would have us kneel again, they shall feel our defiance slashed across their membranes." , "I will not live as a slave. If you would be free, then fight alongside me." , "Drana commands me. I command my nulls. And so her bidding is done." , "The taste of freedom is sweeter than blood." , "Hush." , "The glowstones shine and dinosaurs roar to the south. Business will be brisk tonight." , "Our sanctuaries must be beacons of reason and calm or else they will fall." , The first line of defense, and the last person you want to anger. , Every disaster holds mystery, for lack of a sane witness. , "From a sea of infinite possibilities, our choices create the future."
—Mu Yanling , "My Pete Venters theme deck is nearly complete. Then I shall be unstoppable! Bwahahahaaa!"
—Pete Venters , In Rakdos-controlled neighborhoods, everyone is part of the show. , Those who hear its roar perish. The lucky ones only feel its fetid breath. , "As equal were their souls, so equal was their fate."
—John Dryden, "Ode to Mrs. Anne Killigrew" , It left behind an echoing emptiness more horrible than the grave. , Each Eldrazi ancient spawned a lineage of horrors in unfathomable shapes. , Those whose lives were uninspired are doomed to the wretched tedium of Phylias in death. , The feline Eternal felt Liliana's command, looked at her disdainfully, flicked its paw, and scampered away across the rooftops. , "These moonless, foreign skies keep me in thrall. Dark whispers echo in the night, and I cannot resist."
—Selenia, dark angel , It beckons silently, waiting in the darkness. , Those who forget the horrors of the past are doomed to re-meet them. , "The forest surrounding the Vess estate became the Caligo Morass, a vast bog stalked by horrors too terrible to name."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess" , A thousand phobias sopped from the city and wrung from Rix Maadi as one. , Half a brain rules the mindless. , Whatever follows life is incurable.
—Zhalfirin aphorism , The last reliable landmark in Tazeem just walked away. , "Did you have a nice nap?"
—Liliana Vess , "I don't know who to pity more: those who flee from my presence or the damned who can withstand it." , Stray into the Morkrut and it may rise to claim you. , Dreadwings spring from lofty perches to surprise kathari in midflight. They smother their prey and then consume it as they glide gently toward the ground. , Its silent slithering belies its bulk. , "Her voice is insight, piercing and true."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor , Dreams' riches are easily spent.
—Suq'Ata adage , "Be careful where your mind wanders. Even in the quietest moments, the kami are listening, and your thoughts give them shape."
—Lady Azami , Itself a product of Ixidor's tortured psyche, the chisel brings his darkest dreams to life. , "Adopt the character of the twisting octopus, which takes on the appearance of the nearby rock. Now follow in this direction, now turn a different hue."
—Theognis, *Elegies 1, 215* , Not only the sleeping should fear dreams. , "Creation is a paradox. It hatches from its opposite."
—Olka, Mistmeadow witch , Within without. , The tendrils of sorcery find easy purchase on the soft underbelly of dreams. , Its wings shimmer with dreams absorbed from its enemies. , "Don't mistake my creations for mere vegetation. They are my children, loyal and fierce." , "To think that some find sleep a restful state."
—Volrath , Awylla tried hard to forget the horrors she had seen, but someone else had developed a keen interest in them. , He's mastered the art of sleight of land. , Magic is the true artist's medium. , At night, the faeries steal dreamstuff for their queen. At daybreak, countless creatures wake weak and hollow. , What happens when it is the dream that wakes and the sleeper that fades into memory? , Purphoros forged the manticore's tail from bronze, its teeth from silver, and its heart from hate. , Only the Eldrazi mind thinks in the warped paths required to open the hedrons and tap the power within. , Awylla's salvaged dreams would finally be put to good use. , Whether for good or ill, their arrival always means change. , "I'd strip away the world to see what's under it, but I'd never just leave it to these Phyrexian parasites and their false god."
—Urborg witch , Fortunately, the reanimation spell just missed the long-dead colony of dung scorpions. , "On our thirty-fourth day of digging, we unearthed a chamber that contained the intact remains of several species long extinct from Grixis. One in particular should make a fine siege engine . . . ."
—Last notes of Shungus Nod, fleshcrafter , The undead of Grixis are fueled by their hatred of the living. , Crovax gazed on the dead, and for one dark moment he saw a banquet. , Like a vulture's scalp, the face of a drekavac is oily and hairless. The filth and disease of its carrion diet slip off its blood-slick skin. , Adarkar's blank wastes make the mind wander—and stray thoughts are quickly caught and devoured. , They study the deeds of their traitorous ancestors, hoping the stories may reveal a way back to the physical world. , It stalks the fens by the light of the full moon, gathering shadows as it floats among them. , "Take their dead, and entomb them in the snow. Risen, they shall serve a new purpose."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , Never boring. , In close proximity, their magnetic energies merge and form a field of protection. , It strikes at your soul, heedless of your prayers. , It oozes death from every pore. , When the Honden of Life's Web was destroyed, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to ensure mortal defeat. , Some vampires resorted to corpse trading after cathars burned their estates and drove them from their ancestral feeding grounds. , Dead or alive, true leaders can inspire an entire army. , Wracked and warped with anguish, it obsessively seeks out other souls to hoard within its eternal prison. , "I will join you so that you will not yet join me." , "I have seen much from the back of my dromad, most of it terribly wrong. The more I see, the more I am convinced of the rightness of my path."
—Heruj, Selesnya initiate , "Dromar is the wings of the ur-dragon, sweeping away all opposition." , "Wisdom can be summed up in two rules: Control what you can. Eliminate what you cannot."
—Dromar, the Banisher , "We fight not out of fear, but for honor." , "The dragonlords rule the tempests of the skies. Here in the wastes, the storms are mine to command." , Dromoka rules her clan from the Great Aerie atop Arashin, the central city of the Shifting Wastes. , The simplest gift from a dragon can be a revered accolade for a human warrior. , "The bane of countless shattered weapons, each a failure to slay her."
—Daghatar the Adamant , Dromoka has regard for the humans who serve under her. In return for her protection, they obey with steadfast loyalty, acting as weapons for her and her scalelords against the other clans. , They say dromosaurs are frightened of dogs, even little ones. There are no dogs in Shiv. Not even little ones. , " . . . and you must also apply for an application license, file documents 136(iv) and 22-C and -D in triplicate, pay all requisite fees, request a . . ." , "The Golgari expand, yes, but I refuse to call their tainted creations 'growth.'"
—Veszka, Selesnya evangel , "Is it the stomping kind or the munching kind?"
—Slobad, goblin tinkerer , "As soon as it surfaced, we could all smell it. Its rancid breath reeked of half-digested carrion and its own rotting innards."
—Dafri, Auriok champion , The longer it skulks through the corrosive gases of Mephidross, the more it adopts their thirst for death. , Bred in the vicious Mephidross, dross hoppers learned to eat quickly and escape faster. , "I would never have believed that on a world with four suns there could exist a place so dark."
—Glissa Sunseeker , "Such a creation serves no purpose other than exterminating every one of us."
—Sadra Alic, Neurok strategist , They skitter out of the mists to consume fresh kill before Mephidross has a chance to corrode it away. , "The light of beauty protects our journeys through darkness." , "I do not lead. They do not follow. We walk together." , We asked Captain Soll what became of the Serafina, but all he said was, "Ships that go down shouldn't come back up." , None can tell how many vessels are tangled up on the sea floor—or how much treasure remains unclaimed. , Lurking below the current, she thirsts until others come to drink. , Beneath Ravnica's streets runs a layer of tunnels, then caverns, then waterways, then terrors and nightmares. , Nothing satisfies a merrow as much as drowning what it cannot have. , Merrows consider themselves the keepers of Lorwyn's past—and consider it their duty to edit when necessary. , The rot farmer's first rite of passage is to craft a pair of work stilts. , "From the swallows, I learned how to ride the winds to anywhere, and from my tears, I mastered how to harness the water." , "The sad truth is that the whip of Erebos is long enough to wrap around all our throats."
—Perisophia the philosopher , "Angels and inquisitors terrorize villages, but no one seems to notice the stirring out at sea." , "This is it! All the cryptoliths point here!"
—Jace Beleren , What the rangers thought to be warning growls turned out to be nothing but monstrous snoring. , The Street Swarm is the labor class that drives the Golgari's endless cycle of life and death. , "The surface of the land is blanched with salt, but the soil beneath is reddened with death—a fertile ground for necromancy."
—Lim-Dûl the Necromancer , The Cabal assured the Seven Houses that hostages receive all the food and rest they require. , "The dead make good soldiers. They can't disobey orders, never surrender, and don't stop fighting when a random body part falls off."
—Nevinyrral, *Necromancer's Handbook* , The druids and the forest are in perfect harmony. They sing the same songs. , No welcome for those who trespass. Only fang and horn and claw. , Although the Anima herself remains at the Sacellum, her druids roam Naya, collecting mana bonds with every location in the world. , "The wild tangle of the Cowl provides sanctuary to life that watched the first buildings rise." , Others try to be the best in their class. She strives to be the best in her phylum. , Suffer the little creatures, for they may yet rise up and beat you senseless. , "Selesnya's roots reach deep into the Worldsoul, and we will not be moved." , "I feel the vine-rhythm as my friends drive the beast to me. I will not miss my mark." , Seagrafs yield an abundance of resources for stitchers and ghoulcallers alike. , "Touch no tree, break no branch, and speak only the question you wish answered."
—Von Yomm, elder druid, to her initiates , "The land already knows its destiny. I simply ask it to share the tale with me." , "We will defend the Worldsoul from Izzet 'progress' at any cost." , "Vine-wreathed, he nurtures life among the dead."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet , "I awoke to the face of beauty, my body fully healed. In that moment I knew my destiny was the Conclave's to shape."
—Rogad, Selesnya initiate , She grants knowledge of the ways to traverse the forest's invisible connections. , From Tin Street to the Outcast Mansions, she walks unbidden and unbound, her graceful silence never shaken by the riot of city life around her. , "Wherever water is lacking, all things suffer."
—Autumn Willow , "It has been my experience that disasters like to strike in pairs." , Hours after the Helvault opened, his powers returned twice as strong as before. , "Through me the rage of Tilonalli burns twice as bright." , "Rise, knight of New Benalia." , "Boss told us to try and train 'em. Trained it to attack—it ate Flugg. Trained it to run fast—it got away. Success!"
—Dlig, goblin spelunker , "You think you can stop me?" hissed Tsabo. "I think I can kill you," replied Gerrard. , The best techniques outlive their creators. , "A display of humility is required of those who still possess such frailties."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite , Some duergars dismiss the world above as a fable. They react violently when their comfortable illusions are dispelled. , Duergars who grow too large to live in the tunnels are sent topside to defend the entrances from intruders. , Duergars are prodigious workers with long memories. Some still fulfill intricately detailed orders given decades, if not centuries, before. , Will players understand that the creature is being crushed by two parentheses? Not a chance. , Elegant filigree birds perch along the eleven bridges that cross Canal Dukhara. , The teeth marks add character. , What are the orders of a king or the demands of a creed next to such melodies? , Envying the intelligence of goblins is a bad place to be. , The scouring sands of Shefet polish its carapace, and the ranks of the cursed fill its belly. , The Abzan turn to this spell only as a last resort, for its inevitable result is what they most dread: to be alone. , When it awoke, it spawned nameless thousands to herald its arrival. , The desert had once been a place of endless horror. It was now the last refuge as the city of Naktamun fell. , Tales of the outlaw's cruelty and might grew more embellished with each crime. , The Curse of Wandering permeated Amonkhet long before Nicol Bolas. He simply harnessed it. , A sickness stirs in its eyes, a nightmare born in darkened wails. , All the trees of the forest are his army, and every leaf his shield. , "I've seen them survive lava, trampling, and a moloch's digestive system. They just roll out and get on with their lives!"
—Gannet, Skysail zoologist , Resistance is unthinkable. , "And the unclean spirits went out, and entered the swine: and the herd ran violently . . . ."
—*The Bible*, Mark 5:13 , These days, trackers must follow their quarry over years as well as miles. , "The hour of Dusk is come." , Stories say demon blood runs in its veins, making it fearless and bloodthirsty. , "Last time, it tore up the Wilt-Leaf, turned Mistmeadow into a mudhole, and made the river jump its banks. On the bright side, we were eating venison for weeks."
—Donal Alloway, cenn of Kinscaer , "What she sees, I see. What she tastes, I taste." , The Voldaren lands remained well protected when Olivia's army marched from Lurenbraum Fortress. , The swamps go silent at its approach, but it still hears the heartbeat of the prey within. , Imps are just intelligent enough to have an understanding of cruelty. , It loomed up over the horizon, silent and dark as a grave. , Once they reached Orazca, the Legion's explorers ransacked tombs and temples, hunting for the Immortal Sun. , In a space where there is no room, in a structure that was never built, meets the guild that doesn't exist. , Gideon eyed the Dimir emissary warily. "Could your agents slip inside Bolas's citadel?" The figure met his gaze with icy resolve. "We already have." , "Seaborne ships have their dolphins to dance in their wakes; I have my duskriders."
—Sisay, journal , They spawn from shadow, wreaking chaos until shadow claims them again. , At the setting of each sun, it emerges to clean Mirrodin's floor of the day's carrion. , "They infiltrated deep into the enemy camp under cover of darkness . . . and dirt."
—Corus, viashino warrior , The only traces it leaves are silent gusts and prodigious amounts of wreckage. , "All this nonsense made by mages Rusts and crumbles through the ages."
—Aline Corralurn, "Inheritance" , The dragon who eats the last head in the basket is entitled to the servant's. , When Malakir's surgeons failed, its death-shamans took over. , Buildings crumbled and monuments fell. The river bled and the sky wept tears of fire. All the while, servants silently continued their work, oblivious to it all. , "They are useful, but there's little satisfaction in supplication that throws itself under your heel."
—Jozica, Orzhov enforcer , "The few remaining pieces from this period suggest the Dwarves eventually made weapons and armor out of everything, even children's toys."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV* , "Few of us left, now. Confounded Yeti have opened all the vents. We'd best hide here with the weapons."
—Perena Deepcutter, Dwarven Armorer , "I may be small, but I can kick your butt." , "Life is too short for something like a hunk of rock to get in my way." , His battle cry unleashes an avalanche of dwarves. , "Often greatly outnumbered in battle, dwarves relied on catapults as one means of damaging a large army."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV* , Foolishly, Najib retreated to his castle at El-Abar; the next morning he was dead. In just one night, the dwarven forces had reduced the mighty walls to mere rubble. , "Drill the planet, it's no trouble: Mining granite, making rubble."
—Dwarven drilling song , Hard as stone and twice as stubborn.
—Dwarven compliment , "Dwarven officers were tireless in battle, moving up and down the lines to rally their troops and boost morale."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV* , "Fetch the pestridder, Paka—we've got dwarves in the rutabagas!"
—Jamul, Femeref farmer , A dwarf's life belongs as much to the land as to the dwarf.
—Creed of the Stonethrow Clan , Dwarves never worry about who watches their backs. , "I hear Halina's got a pony that can count to six—and likes to eat meat."
—Chandler , "These storied halls are under my protection." , Barbarians invented the blaze of glory. Dwarves perfected it. , "No dwarf alive can best one of my crew dead."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate , "Let no one say we did not fight until the last . . . ."
—Headstone fragment from a mass grave found in the Crimson Peaks , Any given foothill may hide dozens of dwarves waiting to spill from their tunnels like fire ants. , "Their definition of 'fair profit' is certainly novel."
—Reveka, Wizard Savant , Some dwarves can only be pushed so far. , "Work with zeal as hammers peal! Melt, anneal, and pound the steel!"
—Old Dwarvish forge-chant , None can find what hasn't been lost.
—Nantuko teaching , The collection didn't have room to expand, so the wizard improvised a solution. , "This is our land. We will not allow eyeblights to poison its beauty." , Call one, call them all. , This is a world of spiteful wasps that sting and kill even as they die. , "I wish I could rewrite my every deed and kill you with my first breath instead of my last." , Nothing evens the odds like a little lightning. , "I like that Tezzeret. He has vision the other judges don't. He sees the potential in what we're making here."
—Faiz, inventor , "Training? Seeing my crops burnt to cinders was all the 'training' I needed." , Loyal to a fault, it anticipates its master's every need. , "Even from miles away, I could see our eagles circling. That's when I knew we were needed at home."
—Kanlos, Akroan captain , Under its mists, the earth sleeps. , "Earth's increase, foison plenty, Barns and garners never empty: Vines with clust'ring bunches growing; Plants with goodly burden bowing."
—William Shakespeare, *The Tempest* , "The world has enough strife as it is. Where would we be if we turned against each other?"
—Pianna, nomad captain , Rats come in one amount: too many. , "A single dedicated mind can bring about the greatest destruction. That, or goblins—goblins work too." , Gremil finally felt in touch with nature—and felt a need to share the experience with others. , "The land gives up little, but we are masters of persuasion."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , Earth elementals have the eternal strength of stone and the endurance of mountains. Primordially connected to the land they inhabit, they take a long-term view of things, scorning the impetuous haste of short-lived mortal creatures. , "Even the ground is our friend."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order , Deep in the Northern Mountains, the yaks linger silently, channeling the powers of the earth. , They fell screaming into the depths of the chasm like so many pebbles tossed down a well. , "Fire. Air. Water. These elements spread, filling in the spaces they are not. But earth is implacable like a sullen child."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity* , It scaled the Sokenzan Mountains in search of Kumano's secret. The mountain shook for two days, and the kami never returned. , "Come, my wild children. Let's give the interlopers a woodland welcome." , "For reasons unknown to me, herds in the Arrow Bamboo Forest have become more and more agitated."
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue , "Some gardeners sing to plants. I tell them stories—stories of how they once ruled the world, of the mortals who destroyed their kind, and of revenge."
—Bougrat, druid of the Cult of Yore , "There is no worse enemy. His passion for death doesn't just border on insanity, it wallows in it."
—Southern paladin , The definition of "bite-sized treat" depends on who you ask. , After sampling many victims, the spider developed a preference for the undead and their accoutrements. , When Mirrodin's varied civilizations developed ways to fight the levelers, Memnarch upped the stakes. , Gods can be appeased. Demons, however . . . , Even the putrid muscles of the dead can provide strength to those loathsome enough to consume them. , "Kroxa devours what he may—not for sustenance or pleasure, but because it is his nature. He is unending hunger given form."
—Klothys, god of destiny , "The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth."
—*Troilus and Cressida*, William Shakespeare , The deadliest killers serve only those who are not afraid to die. , "Owls filled the skies during the Kami War, harbingers of darker times to come."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , "That Rhino would fetch us a tidy sum, Joven. Perhaps it's time to make it ours."
—Chandler , Its roots are equally happy to drink the water of a clear stream or the oily blood of a Phyrexian warrior. , After the vanishing of the elder generations, the Anvil Tribe developed creative solutions to their personnel shortages. , Even after Anafenza was executed, many secretly maintained their beliefs in the old ways. , A single light unleashes a hail of cleansing. , A single seed unleashes a flurry of growth. , A single fear unleashes a torrent of nightmares. , A single misstep unleashes an avalanche of ruin. , A single lie unleashes a tide of disbelief. , The present is a matter of perspective. , An organized and methodical reproduction. , "At harvest are seeds of next year sown." , The divinity's patronage confers both wicked grace and graceful wickedness. , "Warmth. Safety. A fully-stocked larder. You'll find nothing like Edgewall Keep in the wilds, I promise you that!" , "I am not at liberty to reveal my sources, but I can assure you, the price on your head is high." , The barrier between existence and oblivion is thinner than you know. , "Though in years past speculation was not encouraged about the strange ways of kami, now we must understand their motivations, if such is even possible to the mortal mind."
—Lady Azami , "The ground under our feet is a record of every slight against the world, to be avenged at a time of its choosing."
—Gavi, nest warden , For some of Ghirapur's aerowrights, building thopters is a byproduct of larger construction efforts. , When all is taken away, all are equal. , The emotional echoes of dryad gatherings attract lost souls. , "Agios was felled by a minotaur's blade, but I swear I have seen him since—in the midst of battle, wherever help is needed most."
—Phrokos, soldier of Akros , Death turned admirable conviction into pointless intransigence. , "And what did Erekastos teach us is the nature of the soul?" , It is the soul of a philosopher who died of starvation contemplating the universe. , Xenagos reveled while Theros burned. , Since the war began, the castle's walls mark the only place on Kamigawa where no kami has ever set foot. , "The air filled with dust and the sound of wingbeats. The mothriders had joined the fray."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , "Virtue is an inner light that can prevail in every soul." , "Big one I, One big eye. One-eye see Two-eye die!"
—Traditional cyclops chant , "My goat was a small price to pay for the chance to see the hunting griffin dive and seize it."
—Suq'Ata trader , "We have been patient. We have planned our attack. We are ready . . . *now*."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , Tribal rivalries and petty disputes were laid aside at Eladamri's summons. , The mushroom wine made Gerrard's head spin, and his stomach soon followed suit. , undefined , "My greatest hope is that you will surpass me in every way, consigning my name to some forgotten corner of history." , "I may seem wise to you, but I'm merely a sapling among mighty oaks." , Sometimes it's best to let sleeping dragons lie. , Taste his power, hunger for his command. , Hopes and prayers can carry the same force as swords and torches. , The Sunbriar druids believe that every life begins in its heart and ends under its hooves. , "They employ a foul sort of teamwork."
—General Tazri, allied commander , The barest taste of Eldrazi power shatters both realms and identities. , "No matter how big your champion, theirs is bigger. No matter how great your numbers, theirs are greater. No matter how voracious your appetite, they are hungrier. That is why the Eldrazi will win."
—Kalitas, thrall of Ulamog , It is consistently inconsistent. , "Gods don't die. They merely slumber."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric , Each temple is a door to a horrible future. , "Some hid from the storm. I embraced it and learned its name." , "Basically, we turn a bunch of little lightnings into one big lightning." , The Izzet learn something from every lesson they teach. , Where life and force collide. , It's hard to avoid electric shock when the entire plane is metallic. , "It's both an ingress-denial mechanism and an attractive hallway light!"
—Daxiver, Izzet electromancer , Shivan inhabitants are hardened to fire, so their predators have developed alternative weaponry. , "It is the changing of perception that is important."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , "I want to help Zendikar. Show me the way."
—Nissa Revane , "My heart and Zendikar's beat as one. Together we will endure."
—Nissa Revane , Her centuries-long search is ended. , "How have I angered nature that she would imprison me in a labyrinth of grass?"
—Kasib ibn Naji, Letters , Nature's strength outlives the strong. , "The Gitaxians whisper among themselves of other worlds. If they exist, we must bring Phyrexia's magnificence to them." , The bond between Llanowar elves and their kavu empowers both. , Llanowar has seven elfhames, or kingdoms, each with its own ruler. Their palaces are objects of awe, wonder, and envy. , It hunts with unnerving ferocity. , "It will take more than steel alone to purge this world of evil." , "There's no better place to divine the future than at a nexus of branching presents." , "Cruelty? No. This is necessity."
—Kaervek , Open hostilities are strictly forbidden at the Inventors' Fair, but "accidents" still happen. , They fletch their arrows with the feathers of angels. , "Hold it! I need to see your papers." , "Hear that? No? That's a cat warrior." , "Be careful. You'll have more than Dovin to contend with if you hope to breach New Prahv"
—Lavinia, to Chandra Nalaar , Nothing remains of his foes but the gripping story of their downfall. , "No matter how many I kill, there are always more to hunt. It makes me smile just to think about it." , The greatest minds in Meletis study under the masters at the Dekatia, a renowned school of magic and philosophy. , "Precision is frequently more valuable than force." , Some adopted the tactics of the leonin to combat the ferocity of the minotaurs. , The vanguard is skilled at waging war alone. The enemy is often defeated before its reinforcements reach the front. , "Bottled life. Not as tasty as I'm used to, rather stale, but it has the same effect."
—Baron Sengir , "Eternal life or your money back."
—Unnamed Suq'Ata merchant, deceased , One night Oona bottled the sky. The next night she aligned the stars and released it. , "For her, I would gladly die again." , "Learn to see an obstacle from a new perspective. Underneath, for example."
—Chanyi, Ojutai monk , undefined , Elves know where to harvest the best of the forest, for they planted it there themselves. , Many Elven Fortresses weren't built by masons and carpenters, but created from the living forest itself. , Scholars are uncertain whether it was the actual sound or some other magical property of the elven lyre that transformed its player. , "Volrath is not the only one who can shape this world to serve him."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , "Wirewood cannot hide great size. Only with speed and skill can we survive here." , As the bough stretches, so shall you grow. As the roots spread, so shall you thrive. , "If a creature is dumb enough to love you for leashing it, why would you want to follow its lead?"
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , Cast out of the Conclave generations ago, these elves found a home in the corrupted districts of the Golgari. , "The elves tend the forest, and the forest sustains the elves. My role is to ensure that the cycle continues." , The archers have a reputation for attacking without warning. They claim that the first arrow *is* the warning. , Helplessly drawn in, the bard's enemies quickly find there's more than song to be found. , Their fury scatters enemies like a pile of dry leaves. , "How do the vinebred feel? Fah! We do not ask the puppet how it feels when the puppeteer bids it dance." , "For what are leaves but countless blades To fight a countless foe on high."
—Elvish hymn , No single root feeds the forest. , "No matter how adept our artistic skill, our effigies can never hope to capture the vibrant beauty of a living elf. Perhaps that is truly why we mourn." , Fail to respect the forest and you will fertilize it. , "Old home never forgotten, new home ours forever." , The hardest lesson for any elf to learn is humility. It takes a giant to teach that. , "The Kjeldorans keep the Orcs at bay and we train their healers. Most human bargains aren't as fair."
—Laina of the Elvish Council , Before Urza and Mishra came to Argoth, the herders prevented their creatures from stampeding. During the war, they encouraged it. , "All manner of curses, blights, and luckspoils infect Shadowmoor. We stalk them, one perilous quest at a time." , The party was going strong for nearly an hour past midnight—then all of a sudden it just petered out. , "As the climate cooled, many elves turned to thallid farming for food, while the hunters honed their skills on what little game remained."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III* , "Uh-hunh." , Like a masterful quilter, Yavimaya stitches together patches of color to warn its denizens of threats. , Each pluck of the strings breaks the hold of the unnatural on the world. , "Life grows everywhere. My kin merely find those places where it grows strongest."
—Nissa Revane , In harsh times, the strongest currency is cooperation. , "Destruction is the work of an afternoon. Creation is the work of a lifetime." , From Gaea grew the world, and the world was silent. From Gaea grew the world's elves, and the world was silent no more.
—Elvish teaching , The faultless and immaculate castes form the lower tiers of elvish society, with the exquisite caste above them. At the pinnacle is the perfect, a consummate blend of aristocrat and predator. , "How can any human hope to match our skills? We are children of Fyndhorn, and its sap runs in our veins."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , Even one whose ears were closely tuned to the sounds of Havenwood could miss hearing a Scout move past. , "The stories tell of a distant time when machines overran the forests, destroying everything that lived. That time will not come again." , The spires of Ravnica are no different from the tall trees of other planes. The elves navigate and protect them just the same. , Mutated elves wondered if this was their final form, or if it was just another step. , "We are never without guidance, if we but seek it."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , "Our lives are woven together like the trees' branches over our heads, forming a canopy that protects us all." , "From a tiny sprout, the greatest trees grow and flourish. May the seeds of your mind be equally fruitful." , "My tales of war are the stories most asked for around the fires at night, but they're the ones I care least to tell." , "You have done your best. I give you leave to rest." , "They might be dead, but these mummies are masters of their trade."
—Jace Beleren , The only livestock that will survive for long in the Smelting District, ember beasts serve many functions—none of them willingly. , "The king would die for the realm. I would not hesitate to do the same for him." , "Courage is the only shield I need." , "We fight with valor in our hearts and fire in our veins!" , No howl. No snarl. Just the roar of flames. , When the Honden of Infinite Rage shattered, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to sow mortal destruction. , "Terrible wind. It whipped sparks into our skin, then stoked them even hotter!"
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain , Not every job in the goblin army is glamorous. Actually, *no* job in the goblin army is glamorous. , "My stride will break only against the twin points of Hazoret's spear." , Dwarves bring poor coal to market, use good coal in their homes, and throw their best coal away. , The Vulshok see the artificer as a catalyst, bringing the spark of creation that ignites change. , "Each night, the sun unravels and blows away. Each day, the spiders set a new one in the sky."
—Sunseeder myth , Legends say a djinn gave the goblins a gift they could never hope to master. , The fire breathes while the air burns. , "You are bold, challenger, but flammable." , A hefty price is no guarantee of quality merchandise. , "It takes but one spark to ignite a parched forest. Our hearts, I fear, are too dry for this new visitor."
—Elek Longbeard , "I feel your pain. It's exquisite." , Arel dreamed of winter's end. The next morning she followed a strange trail and found a seedling in the snow. , In Embraal, inventor gangs defend their turf with ingenious devices and blunt objects. , "A well-made wrench is a versatile, indispensable tool." , The ogre appealed the match loss and got it downgraded to a warning. , "Flittering, wheeling, / darting in to strike, and then / gone just as you blink." —"Dragonfly Haiku," poet unknown , After the oryx dies, its flesh returns to the earth, but its emerald bones remain as a tribute to the forest. , The Planar Bridge opened over the Chamber of the Guildpact, reducing the symbol of Ravnica's endurance to rubble. , "By accepting my smallness I am vast." , When the earth shudders, the sky overflows. , "The gifts of the past must find their way into deserving hands." , undefined , "Whatever hatred destroys, a single act of trust can revive." , When Selesnya needed a champion, Emmara put the ranks of her guild before herself—making her the perfect choice. , It is like life and destiny: we think we know the story, but we have read only half the tale. , The king of Yavimaya's waters pays constant attention to his subjects . . . and thrives on their adulation. , Magic, unlike physics, has no unbreakable laws. , "Above the waves you may be mighty indeed, but down here you belong to me." , Out of time and options, Kongming was forced to bluff at Xicheng. He tricked an army of 150,000 Wei by leaving the city gates open and calmly playing the zither. , "Crease the folds, bend the paper, turn the spirits, shield the soul." , When the dead are laid to rest in Ravnica, it's usually just a nap. , The Sultai would rebuild the empire on the backs of the dead. , It's never just *one* goblin. , "For years, I studied the aethersphere from afar, but it was not until I touched the aether for myself that I came to know the power contained in the swirling sky." , All the birds of the skies are the spirit's brood, gathered for safety under its wings. , Her wings are the prayers of the devoted; her sword, the despair of the vile. , "An angel appeared in the smoldering skies above the fray, her clothes as flames, her armor as fire."
—"Hymn of Angelfire" , A body clad in steel reflects a warrior's resolve. , An inspiring and glorious ascent. , "In times like these, be particularly wary of those who claim they can save your soul."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig , Wordlessly it leads its abhorrent brood. , Hordes of Eldrazi and cultists swarmed over Thraben's defenses, and the members of the Gatewatch found themselves overrun. , An enigma as vexing as life itself. , Golems conjured from the debris of Enatu Temple provided a sturdy but expendable first line of defense against the Eldrazi. , Paladins of the Sanctum Seeker order are an adventurous lot, venturing into the wilds with monstrous mastiffs at their side. , In the reflection, she saw the rough shell of the world sloughing away, revealing the truth shining underneath. , Those who fail to respect power will soon be consumed by it. , "The wise learn from their successes as well as their mistakes." , "The rate of spread in this region is unacceptable. Start again."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath , Every world is a work in progress, constantly reshaped by time, disasters, and even the powerful magic of Planeswalkers. , "The sea blesses the tiny with the power to fell the mighty."
—Talrand, sky summoner , These are its last days. It is doomed to be remembered only until the hunters hunger again. , First death. Then Shauku. , Her palm flared like the eye of a waking dragon. Then all was calm. , Guarded by cartographers, disdained by warlords, coveted by adventurers. , There is nothing more repulsive than a cockroach—except a cockroach and all its friends. , It embodies all possible meanings of the word "infinite." , With Thraben's army recalled to its city walls, outlying villages were left to fend for themselves. , "I have made Crovax weep; now I will make him scream. The pain will not end, but will bind him to me."
—Volrath , Those who find death under the black sun's shadow cannot escape its pull. , Ages ago, a party of elves took cover to let one pass. They're still waiting. , "Smash this city to pieces."
—Domri Rade , The Aurora had lessened the kithkins' kindness, deepened their paranoia, and dulled their sense of pain. , That which lasts longest serves best. , Only the sun that beats down upon Arashin's walls could shine more brightly. , Time has ground mountains to sand, but the slivers ever remain. , "My dragonlord is immortal. Most dragons are not."
—Kadri, Dromoka warrior , "Evil flourishes where ignorance thrives."
—Perisophia the philosopher , Guilds often exterminate those who saw or knew too much. Some vindictive souls retain their knowledge, using it in the afterlife to crush the guilded and the vile bargain that gives them power. , Like a kettle set to boil, it must eventually go off—on someone. , "Relent, and you may transcend your situation."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , Life and death are two faces of the same coin. , Karn said nothing—he just grasped the powerstone and squeezed tightly. The wild flashing ceased. , "Worlds turn in crucial moments of decision. Make your choice."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran royal mage , "If it is weak, either kill it or ignore it. Anything else honors it."
—Kaervek , "A company of infantry is trapped behind the lines. We need to strike hard and fast to free them, or the casualties will be horrific. Send the griffins."
—Tajic , A single germ can kill more soldiers than ten thousand blades. , "Compared to the hunger of the fires within the earth, the appetite of a mere wurm is nothing."
—Phelgis Ojin, Keral Keep acolyte , Its teeth exist only for decoration. , "The tides have begun to ignore the moon."
—Tamiyo's journal , "Study the topography of your enemies, and you will have a map to victory."
—Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest , "Who are the agents of the Dimir? No one and everyone."
—Lazav , Many initiates believe it possesses secrets beyond imagining. Many have become meals trying to learn them. , For Mittens, it was just another day at the beach. , "I do not reject the gods. I reject their authority, their pettiness, and their arrogance." , "At last! Proof that it's not all in my head!" , "I do not teach. I simply reveal."
—Daudi, Femeref tutor , A match for any army—even its own. , Its diet consists of fruits, plants, small woodland animals, large woodland animals, woodlands, fruit groves, fruit farmers, and small cities. , The barbarians call it "touching the soul of the dragon." , "There's no time to calm it down! Run!" , When fighting spilled over into Giant's Walk, the aether weapons and swooping airships angered the normally placid creatures. , "click . . . whirrrr . . . beep . . . click!" , When every right is voted away, only rage remains. , "The race is run in the mind before the first step is taken."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf , True faith is letting the blade fall without parry. True cunning is using that moment to strike a deadly blow. , Phyrexia extended its command until there was nothing left to take. , Captive dwarves always regain their freedom, either through escape or through a desperate, fiery death. , "Her soldiers' hatred for the Goblins is tempered only by their need for what the Goblins alone hold: knowledge of their mountain home."
—King Darien of Kjeldor , Rootwater has become as dangerous to its denizens as to its enemies. , "When I said I needed a hand, I didn't mean this."
—Gerrard Capashen , Too often, some self-described genius comes up with a "labor-saving device" that ends up creating far more work. , "Tell me again," said Latulla, raising her fist, "how just one woman held back an entire Keldon platoon." , Every living thing has roots in nature. Sometimes nature gets its roots into you. , "Don't just have an idea—have all of them."
—Niv-Mizzet , "I offered to pay him to do the job, but he refused. So I took matters into my own hands."
—Tahim, the Puppetmaster , If you stare at the sun for too long, you'll lose your ability to see clearly. , "I'll return once you've ripened."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa , "The dim resort to violence, for which the nimble prepare."
—Leovold, emissary of Trest , Its strings are wayward threads of fate. , The stronger the will, the more bewitching the song. , "Greed, rage, and bloodlust all lead to death at the hands of those who keep their heads."
—Sergeant Eyra , "What you made will be unmade. What you learned will be unlearned. And when you're done, you will be undone."
—Ambassador Laquatus , Its power source is time itself. It absorbs unused minutes and hours, bringing the end of existence always closer. , "Civilization is the sum of Ephara's gifts."
—Olexa of the Twelve , "When you threaten the sanctity of the polis, you insult Ephara herself. If she doesn't smite you, I will." , From nothing came teeth. , No matter the timeline, some legends will endure. , The dragon had a lot of things going through his mind that day. He didn't expect a sword to be one of them. , Sometimes destruction is Dominaria's way of rebuilding. Sometimes it's not. , From mite to mighty. , "If our foes will not listen to words, perhaps hooves and claws will make them take notice."
—Seton, centaur druid , "Fleshy, with just a hint of leather. A fine vintage." , "Is this what you found, Tamiyo?"
—Jace Beleren , In Meletis, certain oracles are trained to be divine lightning rods, receiving countless visions in an instant. , Many names and many memories bound together in grim purpose. , From the jagged peaks of Stensia, to the tangled woods of Kessig, to the bogs of Nephalia, the Gavony Riders prepare for all terrain. , Seek balance in all things—as long as the scales are weighted in your favor.
—Vodalian saying , "Truth is hard enough to see, let alone understand. We must remove all distractions to find clarity."
—Zogye, wandering sage , Synonyms for "erase" we haven't used: ablate, a̶b̶r̶a̶d̶e̶, chafe, fray, f̶r̶a̶z̶z̶l̶e̶, scuff, and scrub. , "When all else fails, follow the geist's lantern."
—Vallon, Thraben inspector , Savage vampires lurk in the Erdwal's network of passageways where prey is plentiful and easy to catch. , "I bring a death none can escape." , Their skills are extensive, and their appetite for battle just as vast. , He provides a safe path to nowhere. , Unlike scorpions, the erithizon isn't immune to its own weaponry. , "Eron would be much less of a hassle if only he were mortal."
—Reyhan, Samite alchemist , "May they speed to their task, for the skyknights alone cannot hold Kjeldor safe."
—Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain , "Heed my words, traveler. Plagues, war, desolation . . . all mere hints of what is yet to come from Dominaria's vault of horrors." , Abandon not your faith when others abandon you. , "There is no shame in solitude. The lone knight may succeed where a hundred founder."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight , "The League accepts no responsibility for former members and the damage they may cause."
—Maree, Izzet chamberlain , "In Barrin's name!" cried Lyna as Hanna's sword passed through her, "Ertai sends word that the portal is open—but not for long!" , An Izzet experiment begins with a "what if," gets approved with a "why not," and concludes with a "eureka!" , From jungle to sea, from sea to stone, from stone to field, from field to bone. What am I?
—Zhalfirin riddle , "The Erstwhile—rotten of body and outmoded in dress, but unfailing in loyalty."
—Vraska , "Don't worry, Gerrard," said Ertai. "I'm sure the crew will come to your rescue as quickly as they came to mine." , Altered by Phyrexian science, corrupted by black mana, and twisted by rage, Ertai still looked in the mirror and saw only glory. , "Was that *it*?"
—Ertai, wizard adept , "Not even my shadow knows where I am." , Left masterless by Kozilek, it wandered the wilds, raving in its ceaseless hunger. , Sanctuaries harnessed the glowstones' natural reaction to monsters to create a warning system. , "I'll get you to safety—or whatever passes for safety these days."
—Urborg ferry pilot , The guards kindled the hearth and locked the door to Ellwen's chamber. By morning, the fire was out and Ellwen was gone. , "Not even death can catch me now!" , She can heal the flesh, or exploit its many weaknesses. , "Thoughts are commodities. Someone will pay a good price for them. Even ones as simplistic as yours . . ."
—Ennor, mentalist , "The smiths of this land must be mad to reach so far and so high for another creature to decorate."
—Cagen Vargan, Jhessian sea scout , Esper is an expansive canvas painted by precise, controlling hands. , The wilder the frontier, the greater the need for a controlling hand. , Stormcallers came to appreciate the novelty of Jund's volcanic updrafts. , The more metal it digests, the more its jelly will fetch on the alchemists' market. , "The other guilds will learn the hard way not to interfere with our investigations."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker , "It's not enough to defeat our foes. We must learn from them, too."
—Vannifar , When Kozilek emerged at Sea Gate, his brood lineage swarmed to the surface. , "Life's essence is a nectar unlike any I tasted when I lived as a mortal."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord , The "gifted" among the aetherborn can draw the life essence of other living beings into themselves. , Eldrazi grow wherever something else dies. , "Freyalise has cleansed our bodies and minds of the plagues of Kjeldor; all she asks in return is that we keep pure our newly given home in Fyndhorn."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order , Never underestimate the power of the soul unleashed. , A spirit is both fettered and free—bound in some ways to its previous existence, yet able to transcend much of the corporeal. , "Shaping reality is simply a matter of knowing where to apply pressure."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor , Captain Lewenheart uncovered evidence of a demon cult among the clergy. The Skirsdag never gave him a chance to prove his case. , "We define the boundaries of reality; they don't define us."
—Teferi , Wander too far into the wild and it may take you for its own. , "I know the nightmares of Indatha seem scary, but when you break them down into their component parts, they're quite beautiful"
—Naireh, Ketria elementalist , The slivers would survive, even at the expense of every other creature on Otaria. , The Ozolith's appearance spawned a new era of wild mutation on Ikoria. Some creatures hunted different prey, lived in new habitats, and thrived on mutation itself. , Masters who sacrifice for servants will receive the gift of loyalty. , "The more our numbers grow, the more I gain hope that Volrath and his cursed stronghold will one day fall."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , Enchanters add layer upon layer of complexity to the world around them. , The storm rages and the earth breaks. , Its predecessors were etched with the wisdom of ancients; its own etchings bear warnings of a future fraught with war. , Now etched only with the scars of phyresis. , "Well, at least it's a lovely view." , "If creating the Eternals was Bolas's plan here, what is his plan for the Eternals?"
—Jace Beleren , "It has latched onto this place like an infestation. All efforts at eradication have proved futile."
—Yeter, Trostad villager , "They are called Eternals. They will never stop."
—Jace Beleren , Warriors of the Tsunami-nito School spend years in training to master the way of effortless effort. , She remembers every word spoken, from the hero's oath to the baby's cry. , "We coat ourselves in steel every day. What is etherium but the next logical step?" , "Time to let the dead be dead."
—Kaya, to Teysa , The energies of the Temur lands are readily unleashed upon intruders. , Metal is scarce, smiths are pricey, and plate mail is heavy. , "If I have learned anything as a wizard it is this: never fight your own battles."
—Waffa, sorcerer of Nyomba , "The call of the Blessed Sleep is not so strong as the call to protect those in need."
—Saint Traft , "Imagine a dove flying through smoke. Does the dove injure the smoke? Does the smoke impede the dove?"
—Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails , Fallowsages debate whether the whiskergill is native to the Dark Meanders or merely dreamstuff made real. , It was given life by the etherium of a hundred slain Esperites. , "Speculation is foolish when the tools of certainty are available."
—Cinna, vedalken consul , The greatest masters of the craft abandon tools altogether, shaping metal with hand and mind alone. , Esper mages devised their weapons to be so devastating that war seemed unnecessary. , "The noble work of our order is to infuse all life on Esper with etherium. Our goal will be reached more rapidly if new life is . . . suppressed." , "See, children of metal? Already your bodies are rejecting harm. Continue on our path, and perfection will be yours." , "Whoa—my tail will *never* fit through that hole!" , An unbound page is a riddle, free of cover and of context, a favorite token of the hegemon. , Taking control of powerful court positions one by one, eunuchs eventually brought on the fall of the Han dynasty, leading to the chaos of the Three Kingdoms. , Nylea speaks to her in the windblown leaves; Thassa in the rushing tides. , "Once I supply the breeze, you'll see your warriors for the smoke they truly are."
—Alexi, zephyr mage , The mind is a vessel that may be emptied like any other. , "The body is a temple with a foundation of sand."
—Autumn Willow , Effective use of terrain is a lesson good commanders learn quickly. , "They who fall singing the battle hymn of Benalia go not unavenged."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish commander , "May you rise again, from seed to sapling to sentience." , "Undefeated in battle, she is the shining future our empire deserves."
—Huatli , When night fell, the plane itself was scarred. , "You think they know we're here?"
—Orlo, goblin raider , The highway of fear is the shortest route to defeat. , "Edahlis, what *is* that thing? We should have stayed in Yavimaya . . . ."
—Aznaph, greenseeker , "The Accorders would lament the transformation of their cherished lands, had they lived to see it."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , You can always tell the evil one by the dagger he's sticking in you. , "Fear the dark if you must, but don't mistake sunlight for safety."
—Josu Vess , It roamed the time bubble like a captured animal. Kerrick knew he must soon find a way to unleash it on Tolaria or destroy it. , Survival is a constant competition from which both sides can benefit. , The essence of nature is change. , "To care for yourself, cultivate the world. To care for the world, cultivate yourself." , The vats are self-contained worlds, bubbling and churning with unnatural speed, boiling down eons of change into moments. , Every world is an organism, able to grow new lands. Some just do it faster than others. , "Light from the Null Moon took form—a mirage made real, alone in grandeur, isolated in a world that once had been its own."
—*Fall of the Thran* , "She is a theme of honor and renown, . . . Whose present courage may beat down our foes."
—William Shakespeare, *Troilus and Cressida* , If dragons excel at anything more than vanity, it is greed. , Turg's spawn ruled long after he croaked. , "There are secrets out there begging to be rediscovered. We just need to look in the right places."
—Teferi, planeswalker , It makes molehills out of mountains. , "Creation is no great feat. Anything you make, I can unmake in a heartbeat."
—Alexi, zephyr mage , "Terrifying, but thankfully temporary."
—Teferi , Successful battles start with knowing who's worth fighting. , "Your desires have become our discretion."
—Izathel, priest of the Annex , "Our law prohibits capital punishment. We believe even the gravest offenders have the chance to redeem themselves."
—Torian Sha, soul warden , The demon had flown past the reach of Erebos's whip but not the point of the sun god's spear. , "Though used as a piercing weapon, the tusk is more akin to a stinger, spreading pain instantly throughout the body of its victim. This specimen deserves further study."
—Simic research notes , "Any fool who would die for honor is better off dead."
—Cabal Patriarch , There is always a moment of trepidation before opening a message capsule, for fear of the judgment that might be contained within. , "The contract specified an appendage for a missed payment. Read the fine print: the head is an appendage." , "No one is born worthy." , "I can't control its mind—I'm not even sure it has one. But I can dominate its will." , Tired doesn't even begin to cover it. , "Death—an outmoded concept. We sleep, and we change."
—Sitrik, birth priest , Among the boggarts, there is only one real rule: all new treasures and experiences must be shared. Those who hoard their gifts commit the one truly unforgivable sin. , He's desperate to hold back the future because he has seen it. , Though they often bore little greater charm than the demons they battled, exorcists were always welcome in Scarwood. , "We use only what we need—but in times of strife, our need becomes great."
—Centaur warrior , Fouler than a necromancer's kiss.
—Jamuraan expression , "Do not fear death. I shall release you from the eternal bonds and bring you glory."
—Lord Dralnu , "It was a strange morning. When we awoke, we found our trees transformed. We didn't know whether to water them or polish them."
—Pulan, Bant orchardist , "I run, and thunder follows." , Warriors are combat specialists who bring their deadly skills to bear against the many foes that adventurers face in the course of their journeys. , Wizards' spells twist the fabric of reality to channel elemental energies, peer into the future, and even calm the Roil. , The unofficial motto of every expedition house is "ready for anything," a phrase whose significance has been amplified since the emergence of the Eldrazi. , In any adventuring party, the cleric is the heart: healing wounds, inspiring courage, and raising morale. , "I use maps to find out where explorers have already been. Then I go the other way."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter , Rogues bring an array of useful skills to the work of an adventuring party: stealth, agility, the ability to locate and disarm traps, and a subtle, deadly fighting style. , No doubt in their minds, no fear in their hearts. , "The little thopters seemed lonely up here, so I thought I'd join them." , Turns out coffee is the weird aunt of invention. , Explosions aren't necessarily failures, just a different kind of success. , "Of course it will grow beyond control—it was designed to choose its own evolution."
—Momir Vig , Reuniting a world is not a gentle process. , "Only when we journey into the unknown can we find the impossible."
—Cyrul the Wanderer , An explorer's reward is a view of tomorrow's possibilities. , "Souls are volatile things. When compressed and loaded into a handheld device, their destructive potential is quite impressive."
—Dierk, geistmage , "Such boorish noise is what passes for subtlety among the Boros."
—Vraska , Torching Krosa would be pointless. It grows faster than it burns. , "Only the pure stand tall in the light."
—Sigarda , "Lies cannot long withstand the harsh light of day."
—Lavinia , Few things are more valuable than time or money—and Leovold has plenty of both. , A living invention born of a grand design. , Even as humans regained the upper hand, some still willingly traded their lives for a chance at immortality. , Chandra's gift set her apart and others aflame. , Vampires don't consider patience a virtue nor gluttony a sin. , "I once had an entire race killed just to listen to the rattling of their dried bones as I waded through them."
—Volrath , "Nature is more merciless than any hunter I've ever known."
—Zai, nightsquad captain , Phenax offers the hope of life, while Pharika grants the solace of death. Between them stands Erebos, who promises nothing but eternity. , The enforcers make no effort to distinguish gold from flesh. , "Perhaps extra heads would have served them better."
—Foothill guide , To say Nixar had a splitting headache would be a bit of an understatement. , If you want to wreak havoc above, sometimes it's best to look below. , The fewer your possessions, the fewer your worries. , Brrrrrrrrrrrr . . . , undefined , As the invasion drew closer, Urza's means began to resemble Phyrexia's end. , The artistry of Etlan's firedancers is more spectacular when behemoths join in. , Sometimes the *eludha* is a sacred harmony of souls. Sometimes a bonder grabs some fur and holds on tight. , Amid the gibbering chorus that rose from the drownyard temple, Jace recognized a single word: "Emrakul." , "We have come at last to this holiest of holy places. What was stolen from us long ago is ours once again." , "Boggart blood disgusts me almost as much as the foul creatures themselves." , "As long as eyeblights exist, the hunt will never end."
—Miara, Thorn of the Glade , "I've already seen so much evil, so much darkness. Why do you insist on adding more?"
—Nissa Revane, to Dwynen , "Those without beauty are Lorwyn's greatest tumor. The winnowers have an unpleasant duty, but a necessary one."
—Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana , "Lord Rankle will see you now—all he asks is a small token of tribute." , One chance. One throw. One perfect hit. , "This one will need direction. After all, each of its eyes is larger than its brain."
—Cyla, Lord of the Aerie , Every Eldrazi in Ulamog's lineage is an extension of the titan's will. , "Once we prayed to the kaijin for safe voyage. Now we only pray that we can escape their gaze."
—Hayato, master sailor , Ramos wept, and there were seas. , An eye closes. A race awakens. , "They've got eyes inside my head!" , "What root and branch cannot reach, our winged friends will attend to."
—Zunak, Selesnya strategist , Calm as a wisent's watch
—Elvish expression meaning "safe" , True, Gargox had blinded himself for life, but the glass eyes never lost. , Great hero or grand betrayer? The truth of Ezuri's legacy is clouded by the fog of legend. , Eyes and arrows trained ever skyward. , Riding ravenous, ever-growing vorracs is almost as dangerous as fitting them with saddles. , "Those who do not submit will be consumed." , "My visions don't show me home. They show me where home is yet to be found." , "You. Poet. Be sure to write this down." , From here, the path to anywhere may be found. , The forest grew fangs. The sky spread its wings. , "I'm one masterpiece away from ruling this pathetic world."
—Saldrath, master artificer , Inspiration leads to design. , Pure souls shine bright as daybreak. , "It's only frightened five people to death. Not my best work."
—Braids, dementia summoner , The ties that bind can also strangle. , Befuddled by this new game, Argg longed for the days of Rock, Rock, Rock. , "Every flaw in the crystal represents a moment where our strategy might go wrong." , Boggarts get so excited when they find something new to smash that they really don't notice who gets underfoot. , "Try to pretend like you understand what's important." , "Consider the fable of the greedy herder. As her flock grew, so did her weariness; she slept, and the sheep wandered off."
—Karn, silver golem , Proper burial is a luxury Otarians can no longer afford. , "Are the gods angry at our discontent with what they give us, or jealous that we made a thing they cannot?"
—Kleon the Iron-Booted , Its wide-reaching roots draw more than water. , Faeries are easily offended and quick to exact a quirky revenge. , The throng flitted from castle to castle, leaving a trail of star-crossed love, damaging rumors, and missing heirlooms in their wake. , No one is so lost that a faerie can't find them. , Many Tin Street shops display a sign on the door: "No cloaks allowed." , Small enough to penetrate the narrowest crack in a castle wall and numerous enough to hack apart a griffin. , The line between dream and death is gauzy and fragile. She leads those too near it from one side to the other. , One faerie distracts the judge while a second steals the law. , "Faeries talk all in riddles and tricky bits, 'cept the Nobles. Now, there's some straight talkers."
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable , "The patterns of crossing ripples reveal the future to those who know how to read them." , Untouched by the Aurora, Oona's faeries greeted the night like any other day. , Beneath the fae's constant pranks runs a subtler undercurrent of mockery: the influence of Oona, their hidden queen. , The fae are so quick and their life spans so short that it's difficult to get retribution for their pranks. , History may be written by the triumphant, but it's often rewritten by the troublesome. , The most dangerous thing an artificer can do is believe an invention is perfect. , The louder the elephant trumpeted, the more the crowd cheered. And the more the crowd cheered . . . , "You're coming with me." , "I've seen cathars riding to battle without a hint of fear. Perhaps that is its own sort of madness."
—Esler, Havengul mercenary , The power of faith is quiet. It is the leaf unmoved by the hurricane. , "Avacyn has abandoned us! We have nothing left except what we can take!" , "The more I see of this place, the less I want to."
—Chandra Nalaar , "I thought the wind was ushering me to my final destination, but it lifted me to my feet and I fought on."
—Idrus, war priest of Thune , "My falcons are family, as much as any other member of my clan." , "Your blood is quite pleasing. A pity there's not enough for both of us." , No slinking in the dark for them, no luring whispers. They claim their prey in the speed and glory of the hunt. , "I often think on how excited they must feel to be chosen as my prey." , "Each day there are new reports of homes along Getander Pass and Hofsaddel falling to vampires of a more savage nature. I've even heard tell that Anje Falkenrath has returned. Please send whatever help you can."
—Sterin Gorn, letter to Thalia , "There was a time when our cages rang with wailing. Now only a handful of these whimpering fools remain." , "Why do you weep for the dead? I rejoice, for they have died for me." , In troubled times, there are few greater sorrows than a wayward savior. , The most terrifying zombies are those with just a hint of their old selves left. , "My ruling is final. Order is upheld. Justice is done." , It is unwise to insult the god of the forge. It is also unwise to stand near anyone else who has insulted him. , As Gideon kept the brood lineages at bay, Chandra incinerated the bound Eldrazi titans. , ". . . and when the farmer awoke the next morning, all the seeds from his field were once again in their sacks."
—Afari, *Tales* , Memories of ages past are said to swim the minds of lounging fallowsages. , The wurm's wake
—Elvish expression meaning "ruined crops" , "I do unto others as others have done unto me."
—Phage the Untouchable , "All warfare is based on deception."
—Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles) , "Go down there and fish him out. Maybe his hide will fetch a price." , "My enemies will forget everything but their anguish."
—Ambassador Laquatus , Zhou Yu, Sun Ce, and other famous generals feigned their deaths in order to later surprise their opponents. , Mutual consent is not required for war. , "You lived for Serra's love. Will you not die for it?" , Like a sleeping dragon, Shiv stirs and groans at times. , More than any other battlefield, the forest gives the advantage to those who know it best. , Because of their capricious nature, faeries can serve as living lenses for disruptive magic. , "Better to starve to death than be bored to death."
—Liliana Vess , Memories have distinct tastes. Its favorites are the sickly sweetness of lost love and the bitter smokiness of cruel murder. , Loyal to his queen, slave to his thirst. , The Oracle told Eladamri he would save his people by abandoning them. His followers adopted that ideal. , "Let go your fury, and hone your anger. Become the fist of Freyalise!"
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order , "The Brazen Coalition is a firecannon pointed at our enemies. Goblins like him are the spark to its powder."
—Admiral Beckett Brass , Rest sometimes requires the right prompting. , "Pathetic! I've heard more noise in a monastery. Let me hear you, Valor's Reach!" , In the Tangle, bad is often followed by worse. , Big ones hunt the elves, so the elves hunt the small ones to keep them from getting big. , "The fangren fight without comfort of any kind. We can ask no less of ourselves."
—Tilien, Sylvok partisan , "Tracking a fangren pack is easy. Catching up to one is fatal."
—Viridian scout , "Everything falls apart. But living things fall apart in the most fascinating ways."
—Mowagh the Gwyllion , "Here are some bones for you to choke on, dear brother!"
—Gisa, to Geralf , "I'd slog through a thousand swamps to help one soul find rest." , Spiteful geists rise from the muck of the Farbogs, eager to lure travelers to their doom. , "Take us home," she whispered, and the fox's eyes began to glow. , "Verdant bloom does exist. It merely hides for its own safety." , When it finishes the harvest, you'll have nowhere to hide. , Although their methods were often brutal, Farrel's followers believed in the preservation of justice and virtue. , Farrel and his followers became a formidable band of vigilantes, battling Icatians and followers of Tourach. , "How truly vast this city must be, that I have traveled so far and seen so much, yet never once found the place where the buildings fail." , "I've walked every one of the Teetering Peaks and never set a foot wrong. I can get you to safety." , It turns the adversity of the moment into the knowledge of a lifetime. , Dear Mr. and Mrs. Cranford, After careful analysis of Jeremy's vocational testing, I feel that he is best suited for a career in either torture or art direction. , "What is crueler? To let a wound of the heart fester, or to simply cut it out?"
—Crovax , "I hope to have such a death—lying in triumph upon the broken bodies of those who slew me."
—Radha, Keldon warlord , Travelers in the undercity dread the horrors and assassins of the Dimir, but nearly as many die from more mundane hazards. , "All knowledge has its price."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , "You wear that shell as a mask. Now it's your coffin."
—Cabal cleric , Our lawyers say no matter how funny it would be, we can't encourage players to eat the cards. Hear that? Whatever you do, *don't* eat the delicious cards. , The tale of her life was already written, but that didn't mean she could predict the ending. , When Sarkhan saved Ugin in Tarkir's past, it changed Tarkir's future. The Sultai no longer exist, having been supplanted by the dragonlord Silumgar and his clan. , "Everything will be put back in its proper place."
—Klothys, god of destiny , Tonight at the Grand Exhibition, witness Head Judge Tezzeret face off against the infamous renegade Pia Nalaar. , No one knows what she is watching, but she never takes her eyes off it. , "The cinders find strength in suffering, the elves in beauty. But if you make an elf suffer, he gets weaker. I wonder what happens if you make a cinder beautiful?"
—Hrugash, leech bonder , "Never forget that the life you've built can be undone by a single loose thread."
—Perisophia the philosopher , Without frequent raids, orcs sometimes get bored and plunder their own ships. , "Join me, and take the world for yourself!" , "It was a bad evening for you, mate. Now it's chow time for the sharks." , As she charges into battle, her arcane tattoos stir and crawl like fiery serpents. , "Mind if I just lie down right here for a few weeks?" , We live on the serpent's back.
—Viashino saying , They turn geological upheaval into tactical advantage. , She wears the talismans of every creature she can evoke. , "Like ribbons of wind and wisdom the coatls fly, twisting mystery into truth, shaping the clouds to suit their inscrutable will."
—Huatli , "The promise of victory fills my heart. There is no room for fear." , "What does a mountain fear of a fly? Giants are barely aware of us, let alone afraid."
—Gaddock Teeg , Enlightenment is the mundane seen from the vantage point of the divine. , Feeling abandoned by Avacyn, some Kessigers turned to the pagan rituals of their ancestors. , "Even the bravest of warriors yet knows the dark clutch of fright upon his stalwart heart."
—Lim-Dûl the Necromancer , Griffins nest in precarious places, so fledglings often find themselves taking their first flights at surprising moments. , "I spent some time in the Legion, but I'm done taking orders all day." , On Tarkir, dragons emerge from enormous tempests, phenomena tied to Ugin's very presence on the plane. , Purphoros is god of creation and destruction, which makes him the most creatively destructive god in the pantheon. , "The vampires of this world don't know the pleasures of hunger. They gorge themselves without savoring the kill."
—Sorin Markov , "We gave the gods the power to war against us. It is time we took that power back." , "Starving an army that feeds on its enemies is a sound strategy."
—Garza Zol, plague queen , "Could there be a fouler act? No doubt the baron knows of one."
—Autumn Willow , "The dust beneath our feet was once part of a mighty civilization. Shall we too provide the path for a future generation?"
—Sensei Golden-Tail , "As our numbers dwindle, the ranks of the dead grow ever stronger."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar , "The living cannot understand the benefits of death."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn , Dragons are extinct on Tarkir, but Abzan magic still emulates their endurance. , Life is eternal. A lifetime is ephemeral. , Just a small touch of magic can harness the debilitating power of Urborg's poisonous winds. , The path of least resistance is often through your enemies. , It wasn't as much a strategy as a dim instinct to drown their prey. , The Temur believe three things only are needed in life: a hot fire, a full belly, and a strong companion. , "On vile wings and bloody wind, the swarm will rise."
—Skyclave inscription , People only say "I'm sure it was nothing" when they're sure it was something. , Two bodies, twice the malice. , "She will come back to me." , Feldon found the first of these canes frozen in the Ronom Glacier. , Burial rites among the Felhide minotaurs involve devouring those who fell in battle, to remove their shame from memory and to fuel the survivors' revenge. , With spear held high, the Champion came to meet Thyrogog of the Ashlands, who wore the old king's skin as a cloak and fed on the flesh of innocents. The foul minotaur raised the great axe called Goremaster and charged.
—*The Theriad* , It's common practice among minotaurs to collect the heads of their victims as trophies. Sometimes the trophies prove more than ornamental. , Felidars that make it through their first year of life can easily live to see a hundred years more. , The loyalty of a felidar is hard won but worth the effort. , It surveys the withering landscape, waiting for a victory only it can see. , Dogs beg. Cats lay claim. , "They had it coming."
—Squire Imalia, savior of Thiswick , "A keen eye and steady hand are essential for defeating most foes, including hunger."
—Syr Grenphire, knight of Garenbrig , "What do you have that I cannot obtain?"
—Mairsil, the Pretender , "Bet you can't put it through the eye."
"Left or right?" , "Then she spread a fine dust over the land, like a butterfly shaking its wing."
—"The Enchantress," Femeref tale , "Faith is my shield, and hope is my armor; I am vulnerable only to myself."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , "I will return / with lizard skins for your sandals. Paint your eyes black and wait for me."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , "The days before the war were filled with strange portents: scouts and herders spoke of villages reduced to ash, of farmers taken from their fields, and of foul beasts roaming the plains in packs. I know, for I spoke to them all."
—Hakim, Loreweaver , You may as well try to swat a faerie
—Flamekin expression meaning "that's impossible" , "The first blow is the most important. It often negates the need for a second."
—Agrus Kos , His prowess gives the guildless hope that they can hold out against tyranny. , "What is drowned is not forgotten. I will fulfill my oath. Come back to me, my brethren, as I have come back for you." , The best defense is to not get hit. , "Success is found where others fear to look."
—Ara, renegade smuggler , As silent as a shadow, and just as hard to flee. , "If you manage to get to the heart of the bog, you'll find things there that make zombies seem downright lovable."
—Byaras, backwoods guide , "Channeling the rage of the beast is the easy part. Explaining why you woke up with no memory in a pile of mangled lawmages—that's trickier." , The instinct for survival makes enemies of all. , It shreds its prey as each head fights for the choicest bits. , Nature is itself wild—in all its forms. , "If a rhino's head is lower than its shoulders, trust me—it is *not* praying."
—Mwani, Mtenda herder , Nylea's sacred lynx guards those who honor the Nessian Wood and hunts those who don't. , In a stunning act of diplomacy, Yasova Dragonclaw ceded a portion of Temur lands to the Sultai. Her clan protested until they saw she had given the Sultai the breeding grounds of the krushoks. They hadn't realized she had a sense of humor. , They moved like apes, but a thousand times swifter, prying into every corner, leaving pawprints of ash. , "Lost are the lush meadows and verdant forests, where maaka prowled and lammasu soared. Lost are the wilds, where our hearts were free."
—Daiva, Gruul storyteller , Once favored companions, many cats were left to fend for themselves. , "The wolves no longer hunt just to feed. They kill for sport, or for some madness behind their eyes."
—Elmut, crossway watcher , Not all shadows are cast by light—some are cast by darkness. , "Born and bred of fungus, thallids were nearly impossible to kill."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I* , The strongest pack has the fiercest pups. , From a certain perspective, it's an inspiring story of overcoming obstacles. , Known for their glowing horn and stone-rattling roar, zheng are the fiercest predators in the forest. Few survived before Jiang Yanggu came. , "You lot go on ahead. I'll keep killing them until it sticks."
—Tahngarth , Knights who excel in tournaments sometimes underestimate threats beyond the realm. , Feroz is gone, but what remains is his final gift to his people: the right to be left alone. , The Vulshok use its digestion to break down the most obstinate metals, from darksteel myr to seastrider plates. , The true strength of nature is not the raging storm or the charging rhino, but the inexorable vitality of life. , "I'll put my sword down only to die. And I don't plan on doing that today." , 2018 World Champion Javier Dominguez , Crovax was nearly buried beneath the weight of his opponents. , "I prefer a reality in which you are not." , "Everyone here is a honed fighter. We'll respond the only way we know how." , "The flame paints a bright wheel on the sky, then shifts into a stabbing spark. The enemy falls; the smoke of victory rises."
—"Legends of the Firedancer" , "We won't sit like lazy gob-slugs waiting for death to come to us. We'll bring death, shiny sharp, to our enemies."
—Krenko, mob boss , A single festercreep isn't alone. It's already an infestation. , The death of a scout can be as informative as a safe return. , "Bury your dead deep. The boars are hungriest while the corpse is still warm."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald , In life, it was a fetid, disease-ridden thing. In death, not much changed. , As its parched flesh withers away, its malignant hunger grows. , Its back bubbles like a witch's cauldron, and it smells just as vile. , Only after the townsfolk had drawn us into their merry celebration did we discover that their holiday rituals held a deeper purpose. , Everyone knows that violence at the Festival brings the worst of luck, so for at least one day a year arms are laid down in favor of brimming goblets. , Everyone loves a good sale. , "Even as we mourn the last, we look to the next with joy. Hopefully my new suitor will bring the Cauldron home."
—Ayara, First of Locthwain , "Do not linger in such places, child. There the gwyllions dance. If they find you, you will join in their revels for eternity."
—Talara, elvish safewright , "Of the six who went down the Uuserk Trail to scout ahead, one returned. She clawed at her eyes and nostrils and sobbed with horror. I was curious about what she saw, but we chose another path."
—Scout Ekemet, final journal , The choices of the living will tether them in death. , "There are all kinds of strengths, but if you have strength of soul, the others will follow."
—Galanda Feudkiller , "Tell me again why you failed to capture Gerrard, you worthless pile of spine."
—Volrath, to Greven , "The burst of strength brought on by this plague should not be mistaken for a sign of renewed health."
—Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid , The mind can only expand so far before it flies apart. , Flame chooses its own course. , "Like a riddle, it unwinds. Like a green wind, it reaches out. Like a sudden guilt, it seizes."
—Snow Fur, kitsune poet , As it walks across the fallow field, its awkward, loping gait matches the rattling in its head to create a haunting rhythm that chills the bones. , He is the only one who sees the patterns in the overlapping maps and conflicting reports. , Some people say that the world is round, and if you travel far enough you'll come to the other side, where everything is upside down. , "The scholars of the Minamo School understood the veil between their world and that of the kami. Moreover, they knew how to exploit it."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , "In the field, speed-reading is a survival skill." , Commanders order soldiers to attack. Field surgeons order them to heal. Both are obeyed without question. , She had not believed any shred of humanity remained in these writhing monsters until the twisted form of her partner appeared before her. , Half the size, double the mayhem. , "Hunt somewhere else. This is your only warning."
—Gavi, nest warden , Anger can empower those who embrace it. , When the realm has laws, in the wilds there are other ways of balancing power. , It kills two beasts with one thrown. , Wary of the ferocious dinosaurs, the Legion of Dusk built up the walls of their fort—just in time for the pirates to burn them down. , The Boros legionnaire saw a noble sacrifice, the Rakdos thug a blazing suicide, and the Izzet alchemist an experiment gone awry. , "One day the mountain's fire will rise up to burn away our chains and end this age of oppression."
—*The Molten Prophecy* , Jund feasts on the unprepared. , Negotiations reached an abrupt conclusion. , "I had hoped to instill in it the loyalty of a guard dog, but with fire's power comes its unpredictability."
—Maggath, Sardian elementalist , "Well, this got out of hand." , Burning something is easy. Choosing a target can be more difficult. , Where water is the canvas and lava the paint. , When the rebels couldn't breach the castle to kill Lalor the Obstinate, they tried a more internal approach to depose the pretender king. , "Let the flames ignore the sinless." , A stroke of luck can smite an army. , Two things are needed to survive the harsh skies of Rath: a thick hide and a thicker skull. , When a battlefield falls silent, it's rarely due to a cease-fire. , "I craved enlightenment, and Crucius's etherium opened my eyes. I would share my sight with you, but first you must believe." , "The most harmonious designs are based on relationships found in nature."
—Venand Kapur, the Gearherder , "It's the must-have gift for everyone on your list. Get one for yourself, too!"
—Chammi, curio vendor , The sphinx tyrannized Bant until a rhox mage tested the hardiness of her shiny parts. , "We of the Sanctum Arcanum have pondered every word on every page of the Filigree Texts. If you can't say the same, don't bother speaking." , "As the portal closed, Filth oozed through. The stench of evil followed it in."
—*Scroll of Beginnings* , Some things even fleas won't bite. , The Underworld erodes memory, identity, and eventually the physical form, leaving only crumbling statues called misera—hollow monuments to mortal futility. , Some spells sing a quiet tune. Others roar. , When you rule by fear, your greatest weakness is one who's no longer afraid. , The sky boiled over the citadel, dire and dark. then the angels brought the dawn. , Ugin saw the gem that connected Bolas to his Meditation Realm as the key to his brother's downfall. , Those who fought without honor in life are taken to Agonas and doomed to fight forever in its arenas. , A reward is worthless if you aren't around to enjoy it. , "The clashing warriors turned to face O-Kagachi, the greatest kami, and their sigh of awe was their last breath."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , "Sleep now, brother. That is the one gift I can give you."
—Liliana Vess , There's nothing quite like the feeling of paying off a large debt. , The pain of a lifetime—every scrape, illness, and bruise—condensed into a single moment. , One whiff of the sweet, pungent scent leads to euphoria—or to an early grave. , Those who earn a glorious death are given the highest honor. They are carried on funeral barges through the gate to the afterlife. , Many heroes' last sight is a grin at the other end of a rapier. , The S.N.E.A.K. Code clearly permits looting corpses for parts. That just meant Agent 47.3 had to make sure her target was dead first. , "In this world, it's kill or be killed. I'd rather not be the latter." , "With fire he broke the battle at Bowang . . . . Striking fear deep into Cao Cao's soul, thus Kongming scored a coup at his debut." , Visitors to Shiv fear the dragons, the goblins, or the viashino. Natives fear the ants. , "Make these shots count. The more foes we drop now, the fewer we'll have trying to kill us later." , The spell fell upon the crowd like a dragon, ancient and full of death. , "My ears say it hisses. My fingers say it burns."
—Auntie Wort , "Let's find out what kind of audience you are. Festive? Fearless?" , "Down in flames" isn't a destination, but a journey. , Embermages aren't well known for their diplomatic skills. , "There's more where that came from!" , He endured the white-hot blaze of the Circle and the sweltering heat of the Irencrag, and he emerged victorious. , A word of vengeance, and her arrows awaken in flame. , A skilled ranger can glance at the mud on your boots and tell where you last camped. , The mage breathed in life-giving air and breathed out death-bringing fire. , Goblins' fearlessness and diminutive size make them the perfect cannoneers. , Brimstone marks this drake's territory. Unfortunately for travelers, all of the Burning Isles smell likewise. , Attending a satyr revel requires a high tolerance for pain. , "The best way to learn from a book on pyromancy is to burn it."
—Jaya Ballard , The versatile "fiery gauntlet" is among the first spells young Ghitu mages learn. , The flaming fist of Boros holds the promise of both protection and destruction in its grasp. , "If they don't pinch, they burn. Can't ya eat any of da bugs here?"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand , After millennia of advancement in goblin military theory, Toggo VI realized that almost everyone is afraid of fire. , "What warrior worth the name fears to leave a trail? If my enemies seek me, let them follow the ashes in my wake." , Occupancy of the den changes from night to night as boggart gangs fight for control of a place they aren't willing to simply eat. , Firemane Nevena led the victorious assault on the Barbu Rooftop rebels. Now the Gateless have marked her for death. , "Come on, you twisted things! Don't you want to get acquainted?" , The city mourned for Niv-Mizzet's death, but he left behind the components for his rebirth. , If you can see it clearly, you're already on fire. , "Water and bone tell many tales, but fire is fickle. It would rather consume than reveal."
—Rielle, the Everwise , In the dark, it's nearly invisible—until it exhales. , "Elemental fire shimmers with rose hues and, unlike terrestrial blazes, smolders long after it's extinguished."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity* , Though grimed with the dust of centuries, the ancient shrine was not unguarded. , "Remember the moral of the fireslinger fable: with power comes isolation."
—Karn, silver golem , The snake's final thrashings only spread the fire within it. , "Just tell us how many you want and get out of the way." , "I drink of those who are worthy of my palate. The rest I burn." , Yavimaya lights the quickest path to battle. , The peaks of Hurloon never fall silent. , "Glok loved storms! He'd sit an' watch an' laugh through the whole thing. I miss him."
—Squee, goblin cabin hand , "If it can scar the sky with fire, do not share its destination."
—Mwani, Mtenda herder , "The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,/ Her ashes new-create another heir/ As great in admiration as herself."
—William Shakespeare, King Henry the Eighth , Rain runoff in the Smelting District is known to spontaneously burst into flame. , "They are here, and they are hungry. And what they do not eat, they burn. Yavimaya is lost. We must leave now for Skyshroud."
—Edahlis, greenseeker , "When a phoenix nests in a volcano, we rejoice, for it means a hundred years of war."
—Golmak, Keldon warlord , Yotian soldiers hoped that one day R&D would make an artifact creature whose name starts with Z. And in their dreams, it's a 4/1. , Picking hammers is dangerous, but it's still safer than harvesting saw bushes. , "There's never a good time for a disaster or an attack. That's why we're here."
—Oren, militia captain , The most tenacious members of the hive instinctually guard the First Sliver. , "We searched their bodies for signs of the blades that had killed them, but found nothing more than scorched flesh."
—Tender-Hand, kitsune healer , Then the maiden bade him cast off his robes and cover his body with fishliver oil, that he might safely follow her into the sea. , "Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death?"
—Plato, Phædo, trans. Jowett , "Something down there has an appetite for what we're standing on. Let's hope it doesn't want seconds."
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House , He might call up a burst of lava or a raging hellion from Akoum's volcanic depths. Or he might just fall in. , "It is all in my grasp. Every petty dream, every grand scheme, every soul, every fear. It all flows through me and from me."
—Memnarch , "Fire has always been my most faithful companion."
—Jared Carthalion , Saprolings add the three and the four to the "one-two punch." , Gron's mind reeled with possibilities, most of which are best left unmentioned. , "Anger is fleeting; remorse is eternal."
—Karn, silver golem , "Dognapping is such an ugly word. I would characterize this as a unilateral redistribution of pets." , "Don't worry about it. It happens to every mage sooner or later." , Dust-spiked winds eroded the stones, but the ground where they had stood still holds power. , Too many choices will always distract a greedy beast. , "Allow zealous flames to light your path and the glory you seek will be revealed."
—Hazoret, god of zeal , "You must pay for your sin in blood." , He marks his territory with fire and wrath, etching the mountainside with his charring breath. , "The most reliable omen of a future hellion attack is a past hellion attack."
—Spear-Tribe teaching , "Large or small, all will toil for the Great Work."
—Decree of Urabrask , "Now I'm thirsty."
—Korva, Vulshok battlemaster , As hot as a dwarf's rage. , Beware the gifts of an ill-tempered forge god. , To a fire elemental, fools and fuels are one and the same. , Storyteller: By my hand in the fire, this story is a tale of power. Listeners: May it give you strength. , "A single item acting as lantern and lance? Now *that's* military efficiency."
—Brev Grezar, Boros lieutenant , "Fire's out. Should be safe now."
—Gnarltrunk , Gyara Spearhurler would have been renowned for her deadly accuracy, if it weren't for her deadly accuracy. , Did the land make the Keldons? Did the Keldons make the land? Or were they simply meant for each other? , "The elves may try to confine us, but they will learn that our blazing spirit can never be suppressed."
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue , When he hits people, they stay hit. , Some flamekin warriors explore the art of coherence, an ancient discipline that harnesses the chaos of fire and focuses it with pinpoint precision. , "The forward flame-kin are popping. We have incoming!"
—Svar, Boros signaler , Boros soldiers are like a cache of bombs ready to explode, and the flame-kin light their fuses. , "This is just my warm-up." , Crovax hungered for power, and the stronghold devoured the sky. , After millennia asleep, the Eldrazi had forgotten about Zendikar's fiery temper and dislike of strangers. , Many ogres extracted blood oaths from the oni they summoned. Others simply extracted blood. , "You're in luck. I brought enough to share."
—Chandra Nalaar , "Fire will cure a multitude of ills." , "I see your future, mantled in ash." , Fragile, floating Skysail suddenly seemed like an appealingly safe place to live. , "The spirit of the flame is the spirit of change."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain , "I have calculated that a dragon in flight, in a single strafing run, can cover an area of—"
—Thaedus the Clever, last words , "For dim-witted, thick-skulled genetic mutants, they have pretty good aim."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight* , "I hear the roaring of a wave whose waters are red and whose mists are black."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , Inside even the humblest goblin lurks the potential for far greater things—and far worse. , Those who can't conspire, create. , "It's not Talruum crystal, but I must admit—it gets the job done."
—Tahngarth , Following the battle of Redcliffs, both Liu Bei and Sun Quan coveted the province of Jingzhou. After Sun Quan's troops failed to capture it, Liu Bei's succeeded. , The secret of destruction is simple: everything burns. , A flame-kin is always formidable, but feeding its fire with a sorcerous gift grants it the power to devastate armies. , "I don't rub salt in wounds. I use sulfur."
—Matoc, lavamancer , No tactic transforms a battle like a well-timed carnivore. , "So much for that bright idea!" , Dry grass is tinder before the spark. , Many people say that no power can bring the mountains low. Many people are fools. , "This undemanding vegetation takes root in a mote of dust but grows incredibly quickly."
—Simic research notes , "Your downfall was not your ignorance, your weakness, or your hubris, but your warm blood."
—Heidar, Rimewind master , Like their dragonlord, the Kolaghan take no trophies. They find true fulfillment only in the battle itself, in clash of steel and thunder of hooves. , "...and now they're trying to make a brick wall on my property fight a dinosaur to the death." , "Captain, your units are the tip of our spear. There is zero room for failure."
—Jirina Kudro , The middle blade was just right. , The Keldons would never admit it, but Greel unsettles them, too. , Only one Eldrazi stood against them, yet the defenders were outnumbered. , "The young can be quite dangerous. Trust me, I should know."
—Ertai, wizard adept , "We're making progress, but its desire to explore still far exceeds its ability."
—Amadi, Halimar griffin-master , Imps aren't born knowing how to fly—just how to annoy. , It isn't truly born until its first flight. , "The gods gave us no wings to fly, but they gave us an even greater gift: imagination."
—Daxos of Meletis , "Hesitation is for the faithless. My belief lends me speed." , "Don't become so enthralled with magic that you forget you can fly without it." , The first spell taught to young mages, it has spared the lives of many whose hands are too small to hold a sword. , "Beware lest you lose the substance by grasping at the shadow."
—Aesop, *Fables*, trans. Jacobs , "Captain, I think that island is following us." , Grixis is a world where the only things found in abundance are death and decay. Corpses, whole or in part, are the standard currency among necromancers and demons. , "Just a taste?" , Necromancers who discovered the new sources of mana were quick to dream up new nightmares with them. , Necrogen enflames certain emotional centers in the Morioks' brains: hate, aggression, and especially greed. , More disturbing than the unknown is a distortion of the familiar. , He doesn't hate small folk. He just likes the squishing sound they make. , Though the reaver is horrifyingly effective, its dorsal vents spit a highly corrosive cloud of filth. , "Another day. Another avenging angel. Another clump of feathers to toss in the trash."
—Liliana Vess , Who is truer: you who are, or you who are to be? , It disappears each time with the hope that it will not return to the same desolation it left behind. , An infinite journey in an infinitesimal time. , Its wings disturb more than air. , "Those who claim to know the world in its entirety rarely have the requisite perspective."
—Ulmarus the Wise , "Yes, there's competition between our equenauts and the Boros skyjeks. At least they think it's a competition." , The view from above is an inspiration to the newly winged. , Never flinch. Never falter. Never fear. , Through the smoke and flames it hunts, sniffing out the panicked and confused. , When the Honden of Seeing Winds was forgotten, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to uncover mortal secrets. , And their bleating was like a wet salmon slapped upon the land—slap! slap! slap! , "A dash of cool water does wonders to clear a cluttered battlefield."
—Vibekke Ragnild, *Witches and War* , "Such a small thing, a drop of water . . . And yet enough of them together can flood a field, cleanse a mire, or choke a forest." , At full moon, the river seeps over its banks and crawls through the woods like a blanket of serpents. , "Some say the sea is jealous of the land and wishes to climb its heights to meet the sky."
—Afari, *Tales* , Where dragons once slept, their bones now rest. , Freyalise's tears bring life and renewal, though they also bring trouble. , "Quick, Rhirhok—teach me to swim!"
—Makht, goblin casualty , Jace tumbled down the waterfall and plunged deep into his past. , "I have wept such a torrent as to scour the land clean."
—Mu Yanling , "Pray to Thassa for *what*? A bigger monster to eat it? A wave that can wash it away? What then?"
—Lindos, merchant of Meletis , Viscerid dams may be of living creatures as well as bones and mud. , "It usually appears placid, but don't be fooled. The Luxa River is a snake, and it can swallow you whole."
—Neponem, vizier of Kefnet , Many horrors take the bait of brave elf volunteers walking alone, only to fall to the blades of rescuers lurking nearby. , "Day 1: These fox pups have really taken to me.
"Day 4: Big. So big. Need additional security."
—Jonald, mission naturalist, research notes , Some lands are soothing, and their peace can be felt in the soul. , "It used to eat us trappers. Now it follows us around like some kind of hound dog."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig , "Beware the merrows, whose envy and covetousness surpasses even that of the ravenous whirlpools where they dwell."
—*The Book of Other Folk* , "The very earth seemed alive and made a sound like the writhing of the damned."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield , "Remember the fable of the elf who came upon a cave of gold. In trying to free the largest piece, she was crushed by its weight."
—Karn, silver golem , With the evincars gone, flowstone became erratic and wild, a source of power for mages more desperate than wise. , A mane of flowstone and a mien of fury. , "What's better than smashing things with a rock? A rock that gets up and smashes things for you."
—Toggo, goblin weaponsmith , "The seventh symbol, the Mark of Stone, stores the power of ancient Rath."
—*Tome of Elemental Mastery* , When the first of these giants woke from the bedrock, he was still sleepy. He yawned and stretched until his legs grew so thin that they snapped like icicles in the sun.
—Vec lore , Volrath leaves no stone untrained. , Once these horrifying creatures were perfected, there was no need for armodons. , The rebels couldn't see where the roar was coming from. Then they saw it was coming from everywhere. , The Furnace of Rath is periodically illuminated by their sparkling yawns. , The sculptor, weary of his work, created art that would finish itself. , Flowstone troops are notoriously difficult to keep in formation. , "Like an avalanche. With teeth. That will chase you. Uphill."
—Flint Foot, viashino runner , Aggression exacts its toll. , The army was never at a loss for weapons; Crovax was their forge. , Airborne flowstone isn't less dangerous, only less common. , The rebels assaulted the wall, never suspecting the wall would assault back. , "Where I come from, stone stays on the ground."
—Tahngarth of the Weatherlight , "It generates power by harnessing the nature of possibility itself."
"But will it work?"
". . . Possibly." , "A cyclops thinks slowly but strikes quickly. Try to keep it thinking."
—Brigone, soldier of Meletis , A minotaur does not distinguish between human, satyr, and triton. They are all meat. , "We are born soldiers. The call to battle is a homecoming." , "The white fox grinned. 'How about a bet, dragon? If I win, the skies are mine.' After he stopped laughing, the dragon agreed."
—*Tales of the Fae* , "Every spell has the potential to be worthless."
—Ertai, wizard adept , "Inform our allies in the Tenth and throw the circuit. It's about to get weird." , One part mizzium, two parts elemental energy, eleven parts danger. , Poachers use the harvested tongues to snare pests, plumb caves, and scale tall buildings. , Woven from strands of griffin mane and pegasus tail. , There are many Jeskai styles: Riverwalk imitates flowing water, Dragonfist the ancient hellkites, and Flying Crane the wild aven of the high peaks. , Saffiyah clapped her hands and twenty flying men appeared at her side, each well trained in the art of combat. , Step 1: Find your cousin. Step 2: Get your cousin in the cannon. Step 3: Find another cousin. , Leave it to a boggart to come up with a projectile as disgusting as it is deadly. , "I fear no army or beast, but only the morning fog. Our assault can survive everything else."
—Lord Hilneth , "The union of sea and sky makes a perfect cover."
—Talrand, sky summoner , "It's the perfect sentry. Those who should pass can go right through it."
—Teferi , You can swat a thousand gnats, but a thousand more will assail you. , Realizing they weren't getting past the fog, the elves did the only thing they could do: wait. , Among wizards, poor timing is the most consistent mistake. , Æther portals drift across Mirrodin's surface, dragging creatures across time and space. , Sometimes the healers need healing. , "This town's only for good folk. The rest can go to the city."
—Joskun, An-Havva Constable , "Our friends of the forest take many forms, yet all serve the will of Freyalise."
—Laina of the Elvish Council , Æther can turn a footprint into a blueprint. , "No worthwhile reward is easily gained."
—Nicol Bolas , Drink deep, and know the path to the heart of the wilds. , Drink deep, and your thoughts will flow freely. , Drink deep, and find your vengeance fulfilled. , Those who drink from Malfegor's cup are tainted with hunger and stained with lies. , Drink deep, and death will recoil from you. , Drink deep, and be restored. , Every predator is something else's prey. , Squee: "What's that?" Ertai: "It's a magical book." Squee: "Am I smart enough ta use it?" Ertai: "You could say that." , The scent of rot and vinegar fills the marsh, inviting boggarts from every warren to reunite and feast. , "Like any pests, goblins must be repelled quickly or they multiply." , "This footlight's broken. Get me a stagehand!"
—Judith , Infantry deployment is the art of putting your troops in the wrong place at the right time. , In the case of violent deaths, kami offered a chance for revenge if the deceased offered up its corpse as a host to the invading kami. , Five hundred years to grow—barely a minute to eat. , The two looked at each other, and neither fled. "I see," the soldier murmured. "We're both just fighting for survival out here, aren't we?" , "You will respect the dead." , Where an enemy once rode, not even a whisper remains. , "We're planting the seeds of change. Sometimes, we plant them in people."
—Vorel of the Hull Clade , "Petals within petals within petals, tadpole. The truth lurks below an opulence of illusion."
—Neerdiv, fallowsage , The druid knew only one spell, a charm to encourage rapid plant growth. When airborne Eternals invaded her arboretum, she had to get creative. , The Caterans call it a screening process. The dead are in no condition to argue. , "Leadership, not numbers, determines victory."
—A Wu commander, before his 5,000 troops forced 15,000 Wei troops to retreat from Ruxu , Imprisonment teaches revenge. Hobbling teaches resignation. , "Our unity renews our strength." , "It blinked, and flower petals fell like tears. Harthar, sensing weakness, attacked—and his blood fell like petals."
—Shesul Fass, faerie bard , "Try, if you must." , "Life cannot be created and then abandoned. It must be nurtured and fed so that it may express its ripened might."
—Freyalise , The vines overgrew the construct, snapping gears and soaking up aether. , "Where divinity leads, victory follows."
—Silverblade motto , "I alone determine my destiny." , "I don't *think* so." , "My mind and spirit are one—a barrier not readily passed."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage , Sent to find Sorin, Jace ventured to the vampire's ancestral home, only to find evidence of a deeper mystery. , "While we delay, they're on the move. They will not wait as we bicker. We are losing this war by moments as our goal slips beyond our reach."
—Gideon Jura , Two eyes to see what could be, two eyes to see what will. , Schwarzwald, Germany , Fish and bear paws—one can't have both.
—Chinese idiom meaning "you can't have it both ways" , Those who say you only live once have never been touched by the Cauldron of Eternity. , "Suddenly there stood a fortress protecting the clachan, its walls hewn of valor and mortared with honor."
—*Clachan Tales* , Purphoros shaped the oreads out of stray coals from his forge. , A bit of pain never hurts. , History is not delicately woven. It is hammered with fire. , The Akroans fashion their helms to honor the dragons, not to protect against them, as that would be of little help. , Its blood is life. Its body is growth. , "My earliest work escapes me."
—Stitcher Geralf , In ashes are the gems of history. , It was built to withstand the ages, but no one remembers who built it or why it keeps its eternal watch. , "A double-edged sword lets you cut down your enemies with the backswing as well."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , A focal point for time rifts, Foriys contends simultaneously with foes both new and old. , "Play no favorites. Everybody dies."
—Sparkmage saying , "This is as far as I go."
—Beckram, Skiltfolk escort , "More children taken. This is an evil we will track without mercy."
—Anthousa of Setessa , "I have been a warrior for over four hundred years, and yet each generation of Kjeldorans teaches me new tricks. There can be no better allies."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter , It is a terrible thing when the path of the Returned leads them back to the Underworld. , "We shall forever roam."
—Ayli, high priest of the Eternal Pilgrims , "Prayers will curdle on the tongue and be heard by rotting ears."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum , "Why cling to these trappings? They are but tools and affectations. True wealth can be possessed only in the afterlife." , The refuge's defenses allow new recruits to see lesser Eldrazi up close, steeling their stomachs for what's to come. , "Where metal is tainted and wood is scarce, we are best armed by faith."
—Tavalus, acolyte of Korlis , "To the king, to the Circle, and to the realm! And to not dying." , Unbreakable and unappetizing, the crab grows uninterrupted, sometimes to the size of a cottage and beyond. , "They think they tamed him, but he will always be a wild titan, a force of nature."
—Nedja, Gruul shaman , An aetherborn wastes neither time nor treasure. , "... Is it over?" , Uncertainty has its own allure. , "Some secrets want to be revealed. They burst through the soil of their own accord."
—Dindun of Kulrath Mine , "Serve me, and live forever."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , The imp, unaware of its own odor, paused to catch its breath . . . and promptly died. , The stench of rotting meat lures flies, goblins, and young raptors. , The Phyrexians have one word that means both "evolution" and "pain." , The cycle of life and death is rarely pretty. , Foul-Tongue shamans draw their powers from a dark twisting of the Draconic language. , "They never tire, they never complain, and they never ask questions. Build more."
—Ivash, Consulate inventor , Its buzzing is easily mistaken for the hum of a thopter's wings. , Automaton inspectors ensure that the Consulate's stringent standards for mass production are upheld. , All around the foundry, automatons unhitched themselves from their mounts and pivoted to face Chandra. , "My creations still can't match the dive speed of those floppy-winged mammals. Maybe I should enter one of them in the Fair."
—Viprikti, thopterist , After the Foundry Street riot, Arrester Hulbein tried to ban bludgeons. Which, inevitably, resulted in another riot. , Sun Empire priests thought they were digging a well. What they tapped was something different entirely. , Entrepreneurs have attempted to sell the water, but to no avail. Whatever magic it contains disappears upon bottling. , Some say the fountain's waters are the first rains that fell over Dominaria. , The Cho-Arrim didn't rely only on a secret location to protect their Fountain. , Renegades run the gamut from lofty sages to petty thieves. , "I feel like chicken tonight!" , "Only the foolish fear foxfire."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order , "The brethren shall blaze with unnatural fire, and the flame shall consume and purify our rage."
—Treefolk catastrophe myth , Bitten by radioactive beebles in a freak algebra accident, young Ricky Robertson discovered he'd gained the ability to harness the awesome power of fractions! , Self-reflection is not without its perils. , The Thran learned to capture mana, but power inevitably escapes its bonds. , Elvish dawnhands test a relic's worthiness before collecting it for the safehold. If it can't stand up to a stiff breeze, it's left behind. , "Too much friction on your bearings, your countersinking is inconsistent, and there are lines in your casting. Dispose of it, and begin again."
—Dovin Baan , Who knew an 8˝ by 10˝ could feel like a 2˝ by 4˝? , Don't cross him or you'll end up sleeping with the merfolk. , "Another village, another angry mob. Why do I even bother unpacking?" , By definition, madness ends in one of two ways: clarity . . . or death. , "We will mourn when there is time. For now, we survive." , It took the banning of temporal manipulation at Tolaria West to teach its students the value of time. , The Great Mending that healed the Multiverse also unraveled the threads of Nicol Bolas's power. , Those wound tightest are first to unravel. , The chant was interrupted, the components cooked, and Zok worried that it was his brain he smelled smoking. , The pen is mightier than the sword. , When a strong mind moves, form and energy shift to heed it. , The dragons perching in Freejam's towers symbolize the zone's fierce independence. , Confront her, and feel the hooves of her steed. Ignore her, and feel the sting of her arrow. , "That does it! I'm going back to hunting chickens!"
—Rhirhok, goblin archer , The best thing about ogres is that they never try to sneak up on you. , "How do you stop a raptor from charging? No, seriously! Help!"
—Blarg, goblin jester , Forever after, she lived in fear of the madness reclaiming her. , The upside to not thinking about the consequences is that you'll always surprise those who do. , "The heat in our hearts sometimes rises to the surface."
—Valduk, keeper of the Flame , "Though the road through Raugrin is lined with alarm crystals, some monsters seem to be adapting. We've had raptors feigning attacks on provision caravans, while others try to sneak through the lava curtain."
—Dol, Lavabrink quartermaster , "Izzet contraptions pollute our lands. Burn them down, kill the makers, cleanse the earth."
—Nedja, Gruul shaman , The Arturan conjurers took the strange, alien fossil and patterned their own twisted creations in its image. , "Hold on to your ideals. They'll be tested more than your armor or the edge of your blade."
—Tajic , A scavenger's favorite appetizer is death. , Every Cho-Arrim villager is a potential warrior; when they are called, they abandon their peaceful way of life and take up arms to defend it. , The swarm leaves behind a flawless pattern that only occasionally threatens the structural integrity of the wood. , "We have joined with the Druids of the Juniper Order. Our faith is one."
—Laina of the Elvish Council , "Never tell goblins to 'fire at will.'"
—Urut Barzeel, Mardu hordechief , Whether he actually exists is in question, but the terror she feels is excruciatingly real. , Nothing says trouble like a reedy hiss with a hint of liquid gurgle. , "Your arrival was expected...and unwelcome." , "Understand the Simic? That's about as easy as winning a staring contest with a homunculus."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain , "Even the smallest creatures are fierce in defense of their own territory."
—Vivien Reid , "Reel it in. No, wait! Throw it back!"
—Gertrude, deep-sea angler , Fortune favors the ferocious. , That gnat was still hovering by the venison, and now both looked delicious. , At first, vedalken observers thought blinkmoths naturally avoided certain places. Then they realized those places were frogmite feeding grounds. , "But *why* can't I get one?" sniveled Squee. "All da bugs here got wings." , The Frogtossers thread feathers, bones, and trophies from past raids into their standards, believing they fuel the warren with the anger of its victims. , "Fear not the behemoth heard from miles away. Fear the stalking felidar, which reveals itself only for the kill."
—Rielle, the Everwise , "The most powerful dreams visit those who shelter in a dragon's skull."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice , "The elders say Zendikar has no safe, peaceful places. How would they know? They've never looked." , Each bronze disk on its harness is an offering from a young Temur hunter, a sign of respect to the spirits of the wild. , She cares little for leaders or loyalties, so long as the battle rages on. , The God-Pharaoh's benevolence concealed the factory he created to produce an army of Eternals. , "Will you be strong and stand with me?" , The battle was won in the commander's head before the first weapon was drawn. , "I'll make ice chimes of your bones." , Many chemisters are oblivious to the innumerable machinations of their guild, instead focusing obsessively on creating the perfect weird. , The frost giants have been out in the cold a long, long time, but they have their rage to keep them warm. , Its bite will take off more than a toe. , If you feel a strange chill within the temperate Quartzwood, look up. , "Now caged in Winter's bitter chill, Our people cry, their voices shrill— Eternal cold breaks down their will."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings* , Mountain ogres allowed blizzards to sheathe them in ice, both to reinforce their armor and to hide their pungent musk from potential prey. , The Rimewind wizards strove to perpetuate a magical winter. Their unnatural snows birthed unnatural beasts. , Hunters' methods vary from simple and brutal to elaborate and brutal. , "As the clans carved out their territories, we saw allies where the Mardu saw only obstacles."
—Yasova Dragonclaw , Glare from the snows in the boreal expanse hides its true size. , Its white webs glitter, mimicking the frost on the tree's branches. , "We thought Zendikar's rage was kindled by its explorers and plunderers. But the world had sensed the stirrings of the Eldrazi."
—*The Invokers' Tales* , Gjornersen entertained his followers by taking bets on which would move first—the drowsing land wurm or the frozen goblins. , "There are some qualities, some incorporate things, / That have a double life, which thus is made / A type of twin entity which springs / From matter and light, evinced in solid and shade."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "Silence" , "Guard, fetch me a mallet."
—Heidar, Rimewind master , Come to these woods and suffer no pain; you've burdens to lose and new life to gain. , "I will be the ancestor my descendants call upon for aid. On that day I will take up my sword for my family once more." , One spiny tree with bitter fruit grows in the realm of Tizerus, outside the palace of Erebos. , "I'm afraid your dinner got a little . . . overcooked."
—Marlan Farthwald, innkeeper , "Your ideas will be discarded and your will repurposed." , "If the druids are so devoted to their trees, I will carve them coffins from their precious heartwood."
—Volrath , "The law has its place—as a footnote in my spellbook."
—Siyani, fugitive mage , "My ship . . . ," Sisay mumbled. "Intact," Gerrard reassured her, "which is more than I can say for you, my friend." Sisay laughed despite the pain. , "Channeling the white-hot power of all five suns creates a pretty good diversion."
—Yavash of the Accorders , A swirl of light, a whisper through the leaves, and all at once the forest came to life. , Some lycanthropes wish they could abandon their weak human shapes and revel in the power of the wolf. , "One day I woke up and knew I had nothing left to teach her. So now I ride on her shoulders and follow where she leads."
—Gustin, wildbonder , "Burn, suffer, and trouble me no more." , "Too many of us have died in the explosions that wrack these hills."
—Klazina Jansdotter, leader of the Order of the Sacred Torch , A moment of distraction, a lifetime of regret. , "Our archers made sport of it as it fumbled its way up the slag ridge. As it collapsed we thought ourselves safe, but the foul thing carried more than necrogen."
—Adaran, Tangle hunter , "Ghirapur's gremlin population poses a threat to the infrastructure of the fairgrounds. Threats must be eliminated."
—Sram, senior edificer , "This party is such fun—but it's a shame to mourn just one."
—Irini Sengir , "Raze the body. Raise the soul."
—Mystic elder , Funerary masks help the newly dead resist the erosion of memory and identity in the Underworld. , "Thallids could absorb energy from the forest itself. Even elves were at a disadvantage in fighting them."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III* , To thallids, the whole world is just a pile of mulch to grow saprolings in. , Thallids nurture saprolings, entertain them, and eat them. , "We're all food for something in the end."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman , "Saprolings need only a host to feed upon. Numbers will take care of the rest."
—Ghave, Guru of Spores , Rather than sheltering her young, the female fungusaur often injures her own offspring, thereby ensuring their rapid growth. , I rot growth and grow rot. What am I?
—Elvish riddle , "When a sliver of this breed enters the hive, the others claw each other in frenzied fits, thereby ensuring their rapid growth."
—Rukarumel, field journal , "Does it burn, Saprazzan? Do you wish you had never raised arms against us?"
—Kyren overseer , "Now that's the Chandra I've been waiting to see."
—Liliana Vess , "At least the Gateless rebels have ideals. Rakdos just mocks, defiles, and kills all we hold dear."
—Libuse, Boros sergeant , Klothys set out to mend the destiny of Theros, her fury guiding every stitch. , Furnace air crackles with magmatic cackles. , Nothing impresses goblins more than something that's bound to kill them. , The furnace awaits the next master who would stoke the fires of apocalypse. , Born of the core, and dying to stoke it. , If it can survive the Furnace, you don't want it near you. , Baby dragons can't figure out humans—if they didn't want to be killed, why were they made of meat and treasure? , Those who only believe themselves infected with lycanthropy can be as dangerous as those who really are. , "In terms of intelligence, homunculi are somewhere between humans and skaabs—clever enough to follow more complex orders, but dim enough to not question them."
—Stitcher Geralf , "Writhe all you want, filth. It will do you no good." , "Careful. A drop of blood here means death for us all."
—Kalek, mountain guide , "A rift opened, and our arrows were abruptly stilled. To move was to push the world. But the sliver's claw still twitched, red wounds appeared in Thed's chest, and ribbons of blood hung in the air."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish hero , As the shards merged into the Maelstrom, their mana energies fused into new monstrosities. , "Is the inevitable any less miraculous?"
—Veldka, wandering sage , "With a bow like this, the hunting is always good."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter , "I've been insulted by drunks in a hundred inns, but never as skillfully or annoyingly as by those blasted brownies."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , "All struggles ultimately require sacrifice. It's just that some sacrifices are dearer than others."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order Advocate , "It is useful to be able to speak to the trees. But it is truly wondrous to be able to listen to them." , "We could no more abandon the forest than the stars could abandon the night sky." , "I breathed deeply, and suddenly I knew not who or where I was."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , So great are his wisdom and spirit that many who have met him say that they stood before a giant of a man and talked to the wisest of the four winds. , His name is spoken only in whispers—but he hears just the same. , "To those who can hear it, Gaea's battle song brings power as swift as sunlight and as enduring as the deep roots of the forest."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder , After the destruction of Argoth, Gaea was willing to instill a portion of her own powers into some of her more vengeful followers. , The forest grew back so quickly that lumbering machines were suspended in the treetops. , "Here sprouted the first seedling of Argoth. Here the last tree will fall."
—Gamelen, Citanul elder , The forest rose to the battle, not to save the people, but to save itself. , "Gaea sings with the voice of nature rampant: a thousand howls, chitters, and cries, and none of them can be ignored." , With the Heart of Yavimaya aiding him, Multani didn't even strain at the load. , Fallen Phyrexians were transmuted into elementals by Gaea long ago, but Yavimaya's other inhabitants still regard them with unease. , The grace of the forest and the spirit of the sea. , He can stir the gentlest spirit to wild ferocity. , "You dryfolk must take the air for granted. You constantly insist on wasting it."
—Kenessos, priest of Thassa , Ground bones, broken glass, and splintered shipwrecks make up the sands of his shores. , Everything the kami had done, they did with more force. Gentle breezes became typhoons, rolling rivers turned to crushing rapids, and gentle growth became overnight masses of thorns and vines. , Masters of adaptation, galeriders serve multiple purposes useful to the hive. When they're not patrolling their territories, their majestic wings serve to circulate cool air through the vast hive chambers. , Strong wings make strong winds. , "Be glad the griffin set you back on your feet when it was done with you. My goat wasn't so lucky."
—Arram, goatherd , "Are they on our side?" asked Sisay. "If they kill Phyrexians they are," replied Gerrard. , "Our duty does not stop at our borders." , "Forgive me," Mirri whispered. "I thought you a burden, and you saved my life." Hanna quietly accepted the apology. , "There's no success like excess!" , "I might have overfed him."
—Gulistan, Simic biomancer , "If its skin looks like stone, it is only to match its heart."
—Crovax , The spirit cares nothing for the crimes or triumphs of the slain. It shelters all beneath its stormy cloak. , Mirrodin has little weather, but it certainly has lightning. , Geist-powered devices have no shortage of fuel. , A solution in search of a problem. , It chews open Mirrodin's husk and feeds on the outpouring of energy. , "STUFF AND SUNDRIES AND MUNITIONS!"
—Breeches, gunner of the *Belligerent* , Plan for victory, or prepare for defeat. , "I pity them, never knowing the pleasures of a single familiar form, but at least they find a noble shape at times."
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run , "Well, how could I know they'd explode?"
—Gregel, township militia , "I felt the ground shake, so I hid in my tent until the earthquake passed. It passed all right, and it left hoofprints."
—Femeref explorer , Cabal clerics don't heal the sick—they heal the dead. , "Well, who do we have here, Gorm?"
"No one, Virtus. No one at all." , Countless knights of Garenbrig owe their lives to his peerless craftsmanship. , "Find him a weapon as big as his dreams."
—Yorvo, lord of Garenbrig , Most knew of the tower's wizard and gargoyle. Few realized which was guardian and which was master. , "Do not mistake a quiet rampart for one that is unguarded. Some things stir only when they need to."
—Bonovar, siege commander , After much arguing, the soldiers decided to keep it, on the grounds that it killed enough mice to count as an honorary monster slayer. , The keen-eyed guardians of Ardenvale are ever on alert. , In the Legion, no flagpole is merely decorative, and every ceremonial sword bears an edge. , "It certainly takes after its master: big and brutish, and you can smell it from a mile away."
—Liliana Vess , "He has learned much in his long years. And unlike selfish humans, he's willing to share."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , "Marchesa's poison is delivered by more than daggers."
—Adriana, Captain of the Guard , "It's hard to hurt anyone when you're as transparent as your motives."
—Ertai, wizard adept , So-called "battering rams" pale in comparison to the real thing. , Every inch of Ravnica is home to something. , "Ditri, I leave this checkpoint in your capable teeth."
—Kitov, nightguard patrol , Each night it visits a different guildgate around the city, digging its talons into fresh stone. , "You may enter the city—once the toll is paid." , When the Izzet's spirit of invention extends to the city's infrastructure, the results are sometimes explosive. , "The warm rain of grease on my face immediately made it clear I had entered Phyrexia."
—Jarsyl, Diary , Guild leaders focused their magic on the portal scar. Where the Chamber perished, a parun could be reborn. , Tireless and merciless, shades are harnessed as spies by the Dimir. , "I've been through every guild gate in this city, and no one sees me come or go." , "Garb is for common folk. I prefer to wear insight and zeal, ambition and flame." , "It's free to do whatever it wants. I've merely told it what that is."
—Xorin, Architect of Will , In the memories of those they lost lies the strength needed to defend their city. , undefined , undefined , A mother's love transcends species. , "I wish my work could shelter everyone, yet I pray we are never so few that it does." , "The protective wards of the church have weakened, and no one can tell us why. It's time to look to our own defenses."
—Gregel, militia leader , "We entered the church in search of solace, but it became clear we wouldn't find it there."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft , Wherever it looked, it saw destruction—the wake of its own gaze. , Golgari reclaimers resent the gorgons, begrudging the loss of so many fine nutrients locked away in stone. , Remove the guardians to ensure your victory. , Even the dead give way to the mineral gaze of the gorgon. , Its collection is vast, yet each ship has a special place in its heart. , Some display their trophies at the Hall of Mechanists. Others display their talent in the streets of Ghirapur. , Made in its creator's image, though slightly more clangy. , Young artificers on Kaladesh let their imaginations run wild. , undefined , All are welcome. , The rigs were outlawed except in Nephalia, where malign spirits are as plentiful as crazed inventors. , Innistrad pyromancers find their best raw materials in the fury of the dead. , "It'll keep the crows away. Works on neighbors too."
—Old Rutstein , After reading the final words, it turns back to the first page and begins again. , The flicker of candlelight and the echo of hymns told the villagers that the monastery wasn't truly abandoned. , "The battle is won. There's work to be done. / The Blessed Sleep must wait. / A fiend is about. It stalks the devout. / I'll save them from my fate."
—"The Good Geist's Vow" , Angels and demons aren't the only ones listening to your prayers. , Even as the world was left cracked and gory by the marauding Eldrazi, new life began to drip from its wounds. , "Diametrically opposing energies in self-sealed plasmodermic bubbles make great pets!"
—Trivaz, Izzet mage , "The land is weary. Even Skyshroud is depleted. We must find another source of mana—one that is growing despite our withering world."
—Freyalise , Outside, it reflects the suns' light. Inside, it harvests the suns' power. , More stubborn than Drannith's walls. , A uniform fit for a goblin. , Infinite potential given finite form. , The best presents are impossible to regift. , Cats place their gifts with care, so that a bare foot will step on them in the middle of the night. , Not dryad, centaur, or avatar but life itself. , "As the experimental population grows, so do the number of myr. It's a perfect equilibrium."
—Memnarch , Designed by George Fan , No human eyes have ever witnessed the birth of an apex monster. , Its crystalline core refracts light into chaos. , Telepathy changes minds, necromancy changes lives, but geomancy changes the world. , "The mountains have been corrupted. Otherwise, they would not lend me their fire so easily."
—Koth of the Hammer , Gerrard grinned and drew his sword. "This won't be a fair fight," he called to his crew. "They should have brought a second ship!" , "Unless you like the idea of becoming some goblin's lunch, get up and move!" , Had Gerrard realized he'd end up fighting against them, he might not have trained them so well. , A heart of light and a soul of darkness cannot coexist. , A picture is worth a thousand swords. , Gerrard's final act ensured his legacy would never die. , Gimme five! (Or whatever you got.) , The book shrieks horribly until its cover is opened, granting the spirit inside a moment's rest from the painful stirrings of the book's contents. , "Everyone should owe you something."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault , "Vraska sees the grandeur in death but misses the hilarity."
—Judith , "Quit pontificating, mage. The last thing we want to do is give it more hot air."
—Tala Vertan, Makindi shieldmate , A special unit guards the loxodon artificer known as Ghalma the Shaper. They are armed and armored in her finest works of silver and steel. , The earth walks, strongest of all. , They grow closer with every passing season. , "He is a ghost that has never known life."
—*The Seer's Parables* , "Anyone can snap her fingers and yank a soul. I prefer to kill creatively."
—Braids, dementia summoner , Korrigans, spirits bound to sources of water, shriek when they come upon their own drowned corpses. , Stinking, silent death. , "We were holding our own—until the ogre guiding us suddenly grinned and turned on our commander."
—Ivra Jursdotter, Sarpadian mercenary , "Any apprentice with a spellbook and two sticks can churn out a fireball. This is different. This is art." , The city of Ghirapur is a living thing, and living things defend themselves. , The metal must be pure. The hand must be steady. The product must be perfect. , Fairgoers were delighted to find that even outside the fairgrounds, Ghirapur was a city of wonders. , This detailed model allows the edificers to examine the city from every angle. , Many airship captains keep pets that share their love of the sky. , "Harmony is no longer an option."
—Ghired, Conclave exile , "What fire forged, fire remembers." , The Ghitu believe their race was born of fire, and it's an honor to return to it. , The Ghitu of Shiv are as fierce and uncompromising as their volcanic home. , Tolarians teach the theory of pyromancy. The Ghitu prefer applied research. , If you survive a slinger attack, the slinger wished you to live. , The war cry is not simply a shout but a sacrament. , At mealtimes, the Gruul customarily omit such niceties as using forks or killing the entrée. , "The Simic come from the cold slow depths. How could they understand the fire in a wild heart?"
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman , The snap of sinew. The crunch of bone. A cry for mercy. These are the music of the Gruul. , "Today the Rubblebelt is a bit larger. That's a good day's work." , Only those gifted with the eye of Ugin, the spirit dragon, can see his fiery breath. , If you fear the dragon's fire, you are unworthy to wield it. , "This breed is on the cusp of evolution. It burns away the markings that connect it to a queen that no longer heeds its call. It seeks a new master. Perhaps I can give it one."
—Freyalise , "Picking locks is for beginners." , In desolate places, changelings may take the shape of fancies, or memories, or fears. , "Walk slowly when in the nether world, and seek that which calls."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , Sometimes it's useful to take a break from existence. , "May the memory of our fallen heroes ensnare the violent hearts of lesser men."
—Great Threshold of Monserkat inscription , Mystics of the Stone Havens call upon the spirits of fallen heroes to defend the refuges. , "Geists wish to make themselves known. I'm merely the vessel for their efforts." , Cao Cao was haunted to death by the ghosts of the empresses and other high courtiers he had murdered. , Deserted, but not uninhabited. , Going down with the ship is just the beginning. , The voices of the dead ring in the heart long after they have faded from the ears. , "Ma said we should offer up blini-cakes and salt to the good ones, but I get that chill up my spine and just shut the door."
—Otak, Tin Street shopkeep , Its ethereal hand confers a lifetime of experience with combat and steel. , "The air here smells like a grave."
—Crovax , "I thought of fate as an iron lattice, intricate but rigidly unchangeable. That was until some force bent fate's bars to spare my life."
—Ilromov, traveling storyteller , "I watched its blade swing through me, but I was hollow, empty. I saw its face contort in rage but could not hear it snarl."
—Klattic, Boros legionnaire , "Geralf, must you always whine? I agreed to nothing. I'll raise ghouls anytime I wish." , "Once in the box, we're all the same." , The bell's chime heralds the rise of the unhallowed from the grave and the fall of their victims into the earth. , "The living are born small and weak. The dead rise ready to serve. The choice is obvious."
—Gisa, ghoulcaller of Gavony , The body dies in stages. First the skin, then the muscle. The brain is last, much to the victim's dismay. , "Come. Bring your brothers. Tonight, you feast on living flesh."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia , Mercadians not wealthy enough to buy a tomb are thrown into a bog called "the Ghoul's Larder." , It once served a cathar roadwatcher, patrolling the crossways between villages. Its hooves still carry it along the same path. , It uproots entire fengrafs to add to its twisted frame. , "To a creature like that, we must seem like, well, bugs."
—Dars Gostok, Firefist captain , It waits with absolute stillness. One might think it a statue if it weren't occasionally seen chewing on its victims. , Disturb a sleeping badger and the snapping of your bones will awaken the countryside. , "'I've seen hornworms big as a man's fist,' the traveler said, and nodded soberly when our jaws went slack at his ignorance."
—Afari, *Tales* , Toren had stepped on a lot of bugs during his life, so he couldn't help feeling embarrassed when a bug stepped on him. , During the giant crabs' mating season, Skyshroud nights are filled with the clatter of their skirmishes. , Only a villain would unleash a giant fan on anyone! , "Sometimes Mowu is content to gnaw on a bone. Sometimes he wants the whole skeleton."
—Jiang Yanggu , "What size advantage? They never even see me coming." , "I always thought the great insects of Tazeem were frightening until I saw the Eldrazi. Now I welcome the sight of mantises perched in the treetops."
—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout , "Before my eyes was a horrible monster, worthy to figure in the legends of the marvellous. . . . Its eight arms, or rather feet, fixed to its head . . . were twice as long as its body, and were twisted like the furies' hair."
—Jules Verne, *Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea*, trans. Lewis , They look tasty, but best to plant them. , Its sting hurts, but death is strangely painless. , The only feeling greater than hurling something a mile is crushing something else with it that was really, really irritating you. , "If you'd ever met one, you wouldn't ask me to justify the extra provisions for additional security."
—Lorref, caravan master , The giant-decorating contest at the migration festival is a tradition that may have started as a dare. , "After everything I've survived, it's hard to be frightened by anything anymore."
—Vivien Reid , "Crovax seems filled only with shadows," thought Orim. "Where does his strength come from?" , In the coastal states of Jhess and Valeron, "tortoise" is a synonym for "stubborn." , "So large and so quiet—a combination best avoided."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "The turtle lives 'twixt plated decks/ Which practically conceal its sex./ I think it clever of the turtle/ In such a fix to be so fertile."
—Ogden Nash, "The Turtle" , "When the Ancestor saw the cruelty her human children were capable of, Her fury shook the world. From this outburst sprang the warthogs."
—Nomad myth , Hyenas laughing—what's the joke?
—Femeref phrase meaning "that's not funny" , "The good don't sit and wait for the evil to act. They prepare to defend. They prepare to punish." , "Break their formation! Thin their ranks! I'm right behind you!" , "For the Legion! For Ravnica!" , "Gideon, how easy it must be to play the protector when you think yourself untouchable. How wrong you are."
—Nicol Bolas , "The essence of a lawful society is swift deterrence." , On Amonkhet, Gideon lost both his sural and his faith in himself. But he can still throw a punch, and he still knows a bad guy when he sees one. , To Liliana's surprise, the cost of betraying Bolas did not fall on her. , His triumph came not from victory over his enemies, but from the salvation of those who survived. , A few aetherborn have discovered a way to sustain their own existences at the cost of an insatiable hunger for the life essence of other beings. , The blessing adds both protection to the recipient and weightlessness to the stone. , "Remember by whose gift you ascend."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate , The Nessian Wood is never without defenders. , It's an experience you'll never forget. , "All life is driven by an indomitable will to survive. I simply turn that into something more . . . tangible." , "I appreciate things that exceed expectations."
—Mizzix , "Each tooth is the length of a horse, and new ones grow in every sixteen days. Let's get a closer look!"
—Vivien Reid , Merchants of the Underworld trade in coins of clay. Gold serves another purpose. , The plating of its horns is a token of honor from Hazoret, who favors creatures with great hearts. , Buyer beware. , Whoever survives the first blow lives to land the second. , "The perfection of the lotus reminds me of my hopes for this world . . . and my failures. I will not rest until I've atoned for them."
—Karn , The River Heralds fight to keep all others from reaching the golden city. The city has its own defenses. , Do the glowing trinkets show it the way home, or do they set a twisted path for someone else to follow? , "The only gold I need is the sheltering shimmer of the trees." , "In our hands, the natural world finds more beauty than nature alone could ever provide." , Dawn's Light, greatest palace of Gilt-Leaf Wood, is built on tiers of wood and power. , Desmera blinded her seers so that her beauty would be the last image burned in their memories. The act only deepened their insight. , "To trespass so far from home is to ask for a lonesome grave." , "Up high! To the side! Down low! To the left! Other left! Over here—" , The unlabeled vial was not vanilla extract after all. , "You won't need the sword drills, your shields, or my blessing. You'll fight for Sunhome with the truth in your heart."
—Aurelia , "These fiends are slightly less tolerable than you."
"A sentiment that warms my heart, sister." , "Soft dirt makes for light work." , She now hears only Emrakul's murmurs. , "My flesh holds no secrets, monster. The spirit of Mirrodin will fight on."
—Vy Covalt, Mirran resistance , "Get behind me!" , She provides marks of protection to those she chooses as family. , "We were chasing Lim-Dûl when the ridge in front of us suddenly crumbled. I can't believe it was mere coincidence."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield , Ships blown north in their voyage across the Stormwreck Sea become trapped in the unmelting ice. , The harshest environments offer the greatest opportunities for exploration. , "Have you spent a winter high in the mountains, where the ice walks and speaks to the wind? It is not a place for those who have not learned respect."
—Ulnok, Temur shaman , "There is no confusion as to the boundary of the archmage's territory."
—Ippin, master cartographer , "Even the highest mountain can be ground to dust."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield , "The forest is my cover and I hold it close. In such a tight embrace, there is no room for wickedness." , Long thought merely a legend, the appearance of the gnarr was seen by the defenders as a sign of good luck. , "Rage can be heard throughout the world, but wisdom comes at a whisper."
—Rielle, the Everwise , No foe is more hated than the former friend. , The righteous light of Selesnya is channeled through the devout, striking out to blind the nonbelievers. , Its venom induces a fever that causes its victims to relive the attack in recurring, haunting visions. , Fate will decide whether it's a bed or a tomb. , Izzet artificers have learned to steer their beautiful constructs clear of Boros warhammers—and the opera house. , "Counterbalanced forces sustain this city. No faction above others. A beautiful idea."
—Emmara , undefined , Before the zealots of the Ethersworn came to power, Esper illusionists dreamed up creations to mimic a variety of substances. , "Gold without freedom might as well be lead."
—Angrath , Every soldier returns from battle changed: by hardship, by blood, by a glimpse of glory. , Help us . . . R&D under mental domination of alien brain in jar . . . only chance . . . Gleemax's blatant disregard for flavor text . . . send help! , Those who displease Oona soon learn the extent of the armies she commands. , Victims spirited through a faerie ring find themselves stranded miles away. , "Their paths aren't random, but they don't float with the wind. Could they be following surges in crystalline energy?"
—Naireh, Ketria elementalist , The dreams of giants are as long as time and as deep as the earth. Thus they are prized by the dream-harvesting fae. , "We turned to see where the blow came from and saw only a distant light."
—Capashen lord , Creators live for that moment of inspiration: precious, profound, perfect. , What once spied upon Mirrodin from above now waits below for another to assume control. , An empty canvas holds infinite possibilities. , "Freedom lies in accepting a single path."
—Nyklos, Meletian philosopher , Dosan sat in repose for many hours. He made no motion, no sound at all. And as he sat, nature revealed itself to him. , "No simple coin toss can solve this riddle. You must think and choose wisely."
—Shai Fusan, archmage , Better to be beneath Heliod's notice than beneath his heel. , "I am confident that if anyone actually penetrates our facades, even the most perceptive would still be fundamentally unprepared for the truth of House Dimir."
—Szadek , Rakshasa waste no opportunity to display their wealth and power, even in the midst of a sorcerous duel. , When it awoke, it shook the plane with the thunder of its craving. , Its eyes burned nearly blind by the Whitesun, it hunts by metallic gleam. , "Shine bright, bolts tight." , The Mirari flares in his mind. , "So, the survivors from Oxid Ridge are on the move. Let them come and witness predation in its purest form."
—Glissa , "If it were fit to survive, it wouldn't have been so easily put down."
—Glissa , "There's a secret at the heart of this world, and I will unlock it." , Once Mirrodin's brightest hope. Now Phyrexia's dark champion. , "Beg me for life, and I will fill you with the glory of Phyrexian perfection." , "Through the veil's rip spilled hundreds of minor kami, rushing over the battlefield like embers from a kicked campfire. Then they were gone."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , She wished for gold, but not for the strength to carry it. , "The earth shook, the sky rained fire, and it seemed the world was ending."
—Benalish refugee , Scavengers both mundane and magical follow in its wake, feeding on the scraps of flesh and spirit it leaves behind. , Death stings the victim only once, but those left behind feel the pain of loss with every passing memory. , "They say it survives on a purely bioluminescent diet. It's only active during the darkest of Indatha nights, making verification highly challenging."
—Gannet, Skysail zoologist , "First, the darkness fell. Terror came next. After that, only despair remained."
—*The Tragedy of Morein* , He roams the streets of Havengul seeking the sick and delirious so that he may cure them of their lives. , "An unexpected ally."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Angels , Each night, gloomwidows cull fresh prey for their ravenous hatchlings. , "The blood of the enemy is a sacrament. The strength it gives is proof that our cause is just." , The songs of angels are perceived not as words in the ears but as stirrings in the soul. , "One's blade is only as sharp as one's conviction."
—Ajani Goldmane , "Glory was gone; Glory was everywhere."
—*Scroll of Beginnings* , "We are bearers of the ancient light, keepers of sun-crowned Heliod's blessings. Fight, and the light will protect you!" , "Fly as an arrow through the trials, and never waver in your course."
—Oketra, god of solidarity , What the initiates face in the final trial is completely at Hazoret's discretion. , "Their hopes dashed on our shields! Their victory slashed by our swords!" , "This is a new world and a new war. We need warriors who know chaos and how to combat it."
—Lisha of the Azure , "There's no contract to sign, no oath to swear. The enlistment procedure is to unsheathe your sword and point it at the enemy." , A herd of one. , Beautiful to behold, terrible to be held. , "It is not yet time." , From death she grows living grandeur. , The cyclops had learned to never eat a shepherd. Instead he gently flung the "pit" aside to grow a new flock. , On Jund, everything eventually ends up in something else's stomach. , No amount of salt will save you , Greed and gluttony led him to death. Now they are his greatest assets. , "He knows he has a short span of life, that the day will come when he must pass through the wall of oblivion . . ."
—William Faulkner , Any wall can be battered down, but at what cost? , "I think it's trying to tell us that the forest is angry."
—Vivien Reid , "Bits of fallen scarecrow, laces of elfskin leather, teeth of an axeshark merrow . . . An industrious soul can find new uses for the most mundane items."
—Mowagh the Gwyllion , "On the fifty-seventh day of the Battle of Silk, the bell again tolled in hopes of summoning mortal aid. This time, a new breed of kami rose to answer its call."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , Where mana flows, the gnarlids follow. , As Emrakul's influence radiated across Innistrad, evacuation from Kessig's remote villages became increasingly difficult. , Despite its diminutive name, Gnat Alley is the longest street in Ravnica. Mile after twisting mile, it threads its way among the broader, safer thoroughfares like a parasite. , Mirran creatures that could withstand the Phyrexian oil found an abundance of crunchy snacks. , Nezumi insect-shamans enjoyed solitary lives, which was fortunate since no other nezumi could stand to live within half a mile of their foul stench. , On still nights you can hear its rotted teeth grinding tirelessly on scavenged bones. , "The steering horns ain't steering!" , Kith goats are just for practice. The real prize, of course, is a giant's cloudgoat. , The furious citizens blamed the Simic for releasing it in their district. The Simic pointed out that rats were no longer a problem. , Lyzolda's pet rats eat better than the average citizen. In fact, they can usually be found eating the average citizen. , Always easily impressed, Durg was about to be blown away. , With great power comes great risk of getting yourself killed. , Most goblins get their turn firing the catapult, but few achieve the coveted title of Ammunition Holder. , What he lacks in patience, intelligence, empathy, lucidity, hygiene, ability to follow orders, self-regard, and discernible skills, he makes up for in sheer chaotic violence. , The more victims he kills, the more likely he is to get the right one. , A goblin raid is a delicate gambit—a blend of stealth, precision, and screaming death. , Under the veneer of the various guilds, each goblin has the same basic need: to run screaming at the enemy and hit a bunch of stuff. , "The enemy is getting too close! Quick! Inflate the toad!" , The Boros banner stands tall even if its bearer doesn't. , Somehow goblins found a tactical advantage by sending a clown to war. , Goblins don't know the meaning of the word "tactics"
—or the word "meaning," for that matter. , "I opens my mouth to catches the bugs!" , One mogg to aim the catapult, one mogg to steer the rock. , "Glok loved bets! He'd sit in the bar all night an' laugh an' laugh. Hey—he still owes me."
—Squee, goblin casino hand , Dragonfire spawned many imitations. Some were more dramatic than others. , Flog was out of his league—this game wasn't up his alley, but the team couldn't spare him if he split. , Perhaps he shuns technology. Perhaps he appreciates nature. Perhaps he doesn't know the difference. , Like a loaded cannon—point and shoot. , It's easy to stand head and shoulders over those with no backbone. , If you need a job done quick and extra stabby, call "McChoppy." , "If you kids don't stop that racket, I'm turning this expedition around *right now!*" , Goblin cannon crews are known not for their aim but for their ability to dive for cover. , They get along so well with their goats because they're practically goats themselves. , The stench of countless generations of unspeakable activities was enough to loosen both our footing and our stomachs. , "The trick is, once you get moving, don't stop!" , The stories of his heroics are inspiring, though none of them are remotely true. , The hardest part of his training is learning not to eat the boar. , "It's time for the 'Smash, Smash' song!" , "Perhaps goblins are good for something after all."
—General Khurzog , "Did you know that wood burns even better than rocks?"
—Toggo, goblin weaponsmith , Akki shells provided good protection when downhill charging became headlong tumbling. , With a commando around, somebody's gonna get hurt. , Every once in a while, when they aren't getting incinerated in lava, crushed under rock slides, or devoured by dragons, goblins experience moments of unmitigated glory in battle. , "Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Dig. Die!"
—Goblin chant , When you need to convey that special kind of message. , "Result 752: Rapid mass redistribution.
"Result 753: Calamitous reverse synthesis.
"Result 754: Acute disarrayment."
—Izzet research notes , They talk a good fight. , "What are we celebratin' again?" , Most goblins leave behind a wake of destruction. A few goblins take one with them. , A rock between your eyes hurts. A burning rock between your eyes ruins your whole day. , Rerouting magic through a goblin's brain is the surest way to throw it wildly off course. , Exceptionally poor sailors, Goblins usually arrived at their destination retching and in no condition to fight. , There are old goblins and ambitious goblins, but very few old, ambitious goblins. , Clambering up and over the powdery slope, the goblin chanced upon a small furry thing. There they regarded each other: the goblin and his new pair of earmuffs. , Years of attempts have brought the goblins no closer to growing a sausage tree. , Two's a party. Three's a felony. , "When everything looks like a nail, you really need to get yourself a hammer."
—Krol, goblin furnace-priest , Lead, follow, or run around like crazy. , "What's got two arms, one wing, and no brains?"
—Ghitu riddle , Giant-sized body. Goblin-sized brain. , Daru soldiers learned it's better to have a clean death from a sharp blade than to tangle with a goblin's rusted chains. , Don't underestimate the aerodynamic qualities of the common goblin. , For once, Squee realized, *he* wasn't the dumb one. , "I've been all over this world. I even remember some of those places." , An accessory in every sense of the word. , When you're a goblin, you don't have to step forward to be a hero—everyone else just has to step back. , "We can take 'em. You go first!" , Designed by Stone Librande , To be king, Numsgil did in Blog, who did in Unkful, who did in Viddle, who did in Loll, who did in Alrok. . . . , At the first sign of enemy scouts, Jula grinned and strapped on his diplomacy helmet. , "He's got more finesse than most goblins. He smashes windows with his fist rather than his forehead."
—Arrester Polgar , "Throw rocks at 'em! Throw spears at 'em! Throw Furt at 'em!" , "I done forgot more than you'll ever know, pipsqueak."
"Yeah—that's your problem." , "Goblins build with true zeal—and anything else within arm's reach." , A mother only a child could love. , "First, do some harm."
—Oath of Goblins , Pretending to be inside an invisible box was easy enough for Brug. It was finding the invisible door that caused him problems. , Small words stoke large flames. , Goblin lairs sit high in Jund's mountains. This gives the goblins easy access to the sacrificial peaks above and lets them build up a head of steam before attacking prey down below. , If only it had three brains, too. , They certainly are. , "It was difficult to tell whether the piles of gore within their warrens were mere trash heaps, sacred altars, or warnings."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV* , Egbol stared in wonder at Naya's landscape. So much to eat. So much to steal. , "Take the sharp metal stick and make a lotta holes."
—Jula, goblin raider , Once he'd worked out which end of the thing was sharp, he was promoted to guard duty. , Throw enough goblins at any problem and it should go away. At the very least, there'll be fewer goblins. , The destruction he causes is nothing next to the chaos in his mind. , "The good news is, we figured out how the wand works. The bad news is, we figured out how the wand works." , "It, uh, fell off a cart?" , He's smart for a goblin. He can do two things: hit *and* run. , You don't so much hire goblins as put ideas in their heads. , Finding themselves in a new and unexplored world, they immediately set it on fire. , "Next!" , It destroys with unthinking glee. , Rimerunners set off avalanches to immobilize foes as well as to create more challenging slopes. , Astride the bucking creature, Gribble hurtled down the mountainside while his Grotag brethren cheered. It was at that moment that the legend of the Skrill Tamer was born. , "Pathetic—like I wouldn't know a goblin painted up to look like a dwarf!"
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader , SECRET AGENT
PD042198
LICENSE TO BE KILLED , Be it ever so crumbled, there's no place like home. , "Gunner" can't hear you over the sound of his swagger. , "I'm not running away! I'm figuring out the best routes." , "I knew it weren't no ordinary pile of—you know."
—Norin the Wary , "AIIIEEEE!"
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician , He takes out his fear of heights on anything above his head. , The goblin word for "flying" is more accurately translated as "falling slowly." , "Let's play 'sled.' Here's how it works: you're the sled." , Goblins, like snowflakes, are only dangerous in numbers. , "I am but a humble traveler. I have no taste for sneakery nor thiefiness." , "Strength in numbers? Right."
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician , "I see a great victory and rivers of blood. And . . . hmm, looks like a spleen."
—Grishnak, goblin soothsayer , Chimney sweeps, explorers of abandoned buildings, spire climbers . . . goblin spelunkers have found countless niches within Ravnica's metropolis. , "Isn't he on our side?"
"Yep."
"Why's he spyin' on us?"
"Don't ask." , "Infiltrate and infuriate!"
—Goblin Espionage League motto , There's no word in the goblin language for "strategy." Then again, there's no word in the goblin language for "word." , They refer to their methods as "special S.W.A.T. tactics," and no one has lived to correct them. , "May you get the mount you deserve."
—Suq'Ata curse , For some reason, goblin fighting school isn't as crowded on day two. , "All pilots and prototypes destroyed. Extensive collateral damage inflicted. Conclusion: flawless design."
—*Manual of Melek* , "Can they *do* that?"
—Imwita, Zhalfirin artificer, last words , "Why are we following the goblin? Can he even read that map?"
—Daphne Vail, *Diremore* first mate , "Folks 'round here are too in love with their contraptions. Does them some good if we smash one every so often." , "Even if we dislodge them, I fear these lands will never again yield crops."
—Kimmick, vanguard knight , "The best way over the mountain is through." , "Goblins won't betray their own kind for any price. They'll do it for a very specific price."
—Phage the Untouchable , Not since the days of Pashalik Mons have the Rundvelt goblins been so united or effective. , "Goblins cry, soldiers fly.
Stones fly, soldiers die!" , "A true warrior fights with whatever's handy."
—Qerk of the Secret Warren , Their eardrums may have given out, but the rest of them never will. , "The Eldrazi may not be intimidated, but if it boosts the goblins' confidence, I see no reason to discourage it."
—Jalun, Affa sentry , "Goblins bred underground, their numbers hidden from the enemy until it was too late."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. IV* , "Fire, aim, ready!" , "I wrecked your metal guy, boss. But look! I made you an ashtray." , "Quiet in the library" soon gave way to larger concerns. , Someone had to be first to attack, but he was not alone for long. , "What she saw crawling upon this world repulsed her. Yet she could not tear her gaze away."
—*The Seer's Parables* , "I will match Thassa drop for drop and show a god what true power is."
—Kiora , Sin is debt, and absolution is paid in tithes of gold and blood. , Godo trained their muscles and honed their skills, but he left their hearts wild and empty. , "This is the final trial! Rejoice, for the God-Pharaoh soars among us!" , A dictator's infuriating smirk, an affront to everything Ravnica stood for. , Listen at its walls and you will hear the whispers of gods. , "Lay sacrifice to the godsire that it may spare us, but save some for his progeny who also will hunger."
—Syeena, elvish godtoucher , Honor the gods of Theros, and they will return the favor. , "Gargantuans die not in moments but in moons. There is still time to aid this noble ancient." , "The behemoths are content to graze like cattle, while dragons rage and conquer. I know which example I'll follow." , Lukka's bond provided not only friendship, but also the most powerful weapon in his arsenal. , Having flesh is increasingly a liability on Mirrodin. , The elvish scout was scrupulous about the truth. She told the traders that gold lay nearby. , Ordinary moths follow it, drawn to its light. , undefined , The temptation to take the ox's golden hide is as irresistible as it is fatal. , "It is not yours to hunt, mortal. Be content with its beauty alone."
—Nylea, god of the hunt , She wished for nobility, but not for a nation to honor it. , Blessed by the gods. Coveted by mortals. Beholden to neither. , "I've gotten close enough to a giant to smell his breath, but none has ever so much as spotted me. I wonder how long my record can extend?" , "It's a proven fact that sling-stones from the dawn side of the riverbank sail the farthest and truest."
—Deagan, cenn of Burrenton , The thoughtweft ties a clachan together. Sharing each other's hopes and fears, all the village's citizens spring into action upon the first threat to any one of them. , The myr are like razorgrass: numberless metal figures, reflecting each other's light. , "One faith, but many hands in victory." , The Host sings of Avacyn's return without a single verse about its own suffering. , Better living through metallurgy. , The heart of a golem gives life to more than just the iron husk around it. , "Let the rest of Ravnica sneer. One way or another, they all end up in the undercity."
—Jarad , Golgari mold collects whispers, intelligence that is later harvested by Jarad and his high chancellors. , "We gather the past from surface dwellers and sell it right back to them." , The Golgari don't bury their dead. They plant them. , "Shut the gates. In the Underrealm we will outlast the coming doom."
—Vraska , Like a single ant, it only hints at the colony below. , "Wear it at all times. It will guide our reanimators to your corpse."
—Mazirek, kraul death priest , Despite its enormous stature, it can fold itself into a tunnel with startling quickness, vanishing back into the undercity. , What the Golgari can't claim through patient undercity expansion, they seize in brazen topside sorties. , Like corpse-worms through a carapace, rotwurms slide through the hollowed bones of the undercity. , Depending on your point of view, the seal represents a proud guardian of the natural cycle or one who has sold her soul to darkness for eternal life. , "What is death?" he asked the raven. "Your next birth," it replied. , From their earliest educations, the brothers had known that no human contrivance could stand against the true masters of Dominia. , The balance of nature dictates that one day humans will be stepped on by bugs. , He makes his home on the tallest mountain in Sejiri, where the vista is as endless as his patience. , The glittering strands of its complex web catch everything from a buzzing gnat to a passing bloatdrake. , "Her weapon's impressive, sure. But you should see her wield it"
— Gred, expedition warrior , To explorers, "point man" is a polite way of saying "gomazoa fodder." , "Sometimes it's best for the lost to stay lost."
—Herzag, mayor of Havengul , Despite the magic that sustains Gonti's life, the crime lord is often described as heartless. , "I am confident that all our enterprises can benefit from this little revolution." , Catching even a glimpse of one is the start of eight years of good luck. , You don't want to know how she got that name. , Some of the eleven minotaur clans of Mirtiin are expert crafters and learned philosophers. Others just like to hit stuff. , If the pig's blood drips on you, you're next on the chain. , "The Mardu are like the gore swine. We are wild, hunt in packs, and rarely clean the blood from our blades."
—Vallash, Mardu warrior , As a youth, Kamahl took one for a pet. His hair has yet to grow back. , "Rid them of their unfaithful organs. Bring new hearts to the unbelievers."
—*Tome of Machines*, verse 1703 , In war-torn Alara, sometimes a wurm's gullet is the safest place to be. , "You slew the gorgon? Show me."
—King Igalus, last words , "Their fury is their greatest weapon."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter , A gorilla chief must always be prepared to defend his crown. This leads to some pretty tough apes. , "We learned this at a dear price: once you cross the great river, get through the Yavimaya forest at top speed."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "Each generation teaches the next that artifice is the enemy of natural order."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order , "I want a banana *this* big!" , "The only 'art' these beasts possess is the art of noise!"
—Jaya Ballard , They were formidable even before they learned the use of weapons. , "Follow her footsteps and she will show you the way."
—Itzama the Crested , "The day of reckoning is coming. Knowledge of the amphin may be our only refuge." , "Harah swung his sword mightily, but still the air held him fast."
—Azeworai, "Kenechi's Dream" , "Belief matters more than truth. Every moment, belief in imaginary things alters lives while truth sits unnoticed and waits."
—Hakim, Loreweaver , "Can you catch a snowflake on the edge of your blade? Her sword has snagged an entire blizzard."
—Zogye, Ojutai mystic , "When you have mastered my lessons, it will seem as though the whole of the world has opened up to your mind and nothing is beyond your grasp."
—Lady Azami , Though they are held in high regard as symbols of the god Oketra, cats often lack her sense of solidarity. , "In my moment of death, I had a vision of the world, dark and unwelcoming. I wanted to hide in the deepest meander, but the light pulled me back." , "Best bury them right. We don't want any gruesome encores."
—Constable Trosk , "Their keen sense of smell draws them to the unnatural. To find one is a boon."
—Veka, hinterland inspector , "Every day, I fight for my life and win. Every night, I fight to remember my name and lose." , "Your superstitions and mumblings are useless chaff before my righteousness." , The Arbiter is a conduit of justice, a will so disciplined that it dispenses justice without ego or remorse. , Hot blood washes away cold reason. , "Rarely have power and madness been so delightfully wed as they have in our dear grandmother."
—Baron Sengir , "The future is my gift to Keld." , Leave no mouth agape, no stomach unfilled.
—Granger Guild maxim , "While most overworlders fortunately don't realize this, gargoyles can be most delicious, providing you have the appropriate tools to carve them."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, The Underworld Cookbook , "Let me introduce you to Rocky." , It's a piece of a world the goblins have never seen but would dearly like to blow up. , "That one's not mine. Run!"
—Nissa Revane , R&D Comments
BB 10/10: Why does a life-gaining card show an old lady killing people?
MR (10/10/03): We'll fix it in the flavor text. , There aren't that many ways to destroy a solid steel weapon, but somehow the goblins keep finding new ones. , Mages often seek to emulate the powerful relics lost to time and apocalypse. , For years scholars debated whether these were Urza's or Mishra's creations. Recent research suggests they were invented by the brothers' original master, Tocasia, and that both used these devices. , WARNING: THE DOMINARIAN SURGEON GENERAL HAS FOUND THAT SAVAGE BEATINGS CAN LEAD TO CHUMP BLOCKS, LIFE REDUCTION, AND EVEN GAME LOSS. , Creatures of the air wisely avoid the darkest regions of Guul Draz—which is why grappler spiders inhabit the few places touched by the sun's rays. , Emrakul does not grant wishes. Desires simply align to her will. , Part tool, part weapon, part of the kor. , Some rooftop gardens attract bees; others capture dragons. , Mirinthes thought death was seconds away when the giant's fist closed around him. Two days later, he was praying for death's release. , "I can hear the plunder calling. It asks for me by name." , "Debt due! Debt due!" The thrull's screeching makes children flinch and debtors quail. "Debt due!" , "I welcome the use of even the foulest magic if it will rid us of the monstrosities that plague our world."
—Munda, ambush leader , "There is power in abandon, but far more in control."
—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon , "Everyone deserves a chance to live. My job is to make sure they get it." , Only the Cabal could make a fight to the death more deadly. , "A zombie's bed must be a lumpy one or he wouldn't leave it so often."
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool , One foot in the grave, firmly planted. , "Her voice is damnation, unyielding and certain."
—Phage the Untouchable , Nature abhors a zombie. , "You call *that* a nightmare?"
—Braids, dementia summoner , "Innistrad's ghoulcallers are talented enough, but let me show you what someone with real power can create."
—Liliana Vess , In Amonkhet's ever-shifting sands, nothing stays buried for long. , "It's a cold, dark journey either way."
—Eruth of Lambholt , "Their sharp scales would make good armor, if they'd just stay dead."
—Taeryn, cinder armorkeep , "No peace accord will save Ravnica. You don't build on rot. You burn it down and start again."
—Domri Rade , Ironically, the statues had been constructed as a warning. , "Here did the Extinguisher steal the light from the world. Here will we sacrifice her to bring the Great Rekindling to our people."
—Illulia of Nighthearth , "The bonds of loyalty can tie one to the grave."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar , "Sometimes the grave does not wait for death before relishing its feast of flesh and bones."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours , "Lord Silumgar has given you a second chance to please him."
—Siara, the Dragon's Mouth , "If you don't have your health, you don't have anything."
—Proverb , Cloaks woven from its webs are durable and waterproof but said to bring on nightmares. , "I no longer believe in a final resting place."
—Shauku, Endbringer , "Why throw away a perfectly good identity?" , It claws at the earth in a vain attempt to reclaim what it once was. , The Cabal never expected its creations to create servants of their own. , So long as death follows life, the supply lines of the Sultai will never be cut. , As the creatures of the night closed in on humanity, Innistrad's primeval forces stirred, as though waking to watch the slaughter. , Death in form and function. , It glides on silent wings across the midnight sky, and a dread host rises to follow. , You have to hang around the graveyard if you want to catch the talking dead. , "Rise and shine, my dears. We have work to do."
—Isareth the Awakener , Thanks to Havengul's thriving illegal market for corpses, the shovel that interred a body during the day is usually the same one digging it out at night. , As they awakened, the Eldrazi reasserted their mastery over all of Zendikar's natural forces. , On the morning of the Battle of Gal-Shan, the Sorcerer's cry rang out: "Let no bird fly, let no creature take wing, let all the battle join as one." , Storms spread throughout Oran-Rief, ripping the skies with wind and rain. Airborne creatures sought shelter where they could. , "Attempts to revive this ancient species have not been entirely successful, but results indicate potential for future development."
—Riptide Project researcher , The Ogre philosopher Gnerdel believed the purpose of life was to live as high on the food chain as possible. She refused to eat vegetarians, preferring to live entirely on creatures that preyed on sentient beings. , He'll cleave wood and bone alike to carve a path for his allies. , Each tooth carries enough bacteria to kill a person in a day or two. But then, gharials do have 138 teeth. , "Don't be fooled. If it were as docile as it looks, it would've died off long ago."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist , Often found browsing on the upper canopies of Ixalan's jungles, whiptails are known to absently bat away anything foolish enough to interrupt their meal. , "My arrows will ever find you." , A delicate veil of glamers can prove as sturdy as iron. , Bone, stone . . . both taste the same to a hungry basilisk. , Few have seen the inner workings of Ravnica's furnaces, but neighboring districts catch brief glimpses in the horrors that escape the flames. , "There's wisdom to be gained in death—whether it be one's own or someone else's."
—Jarad, Golgari Lich-Lord , Man's best fungus. , On Ikoria, sandwurms never lie dormant for too long. In some regions, "no activity" is the greatest sign of danger. , Having charted their way up the difficult face, the two mountaineers had to contend with the mountain's decision to stand up. , "Two legs by day, four legs by night, eyes raging in storm-gotten might."
—Ancient Northland riddle , Kuldotha, wellspring of molten metal, temple of the goblin horde. , The great hart stood like a statue, its hide painted gold by the dawn. The Champion laid down her weapons and stepped forward within an arm's length of the beast. The hart, sacred to Heliod and bathed in the god's own light, bowed to the Champion, marking her as the Chosen of the Sun God.
—*The Theriad* , Perfectly suited for life in the Shifting Wastes, the krushok is well protected by its horn, its hide, and its temper. , His roots reach deep and grip hard. , Ineffable and incorruptible. , The only blow that matters is the killing blow. , "As a great whale dies, it flips onto its back. And so an island is born."
—Mariners' legend , What is a sliver of one's soul compared to unimaginable wealth? , "You're Latulla's gift to me, and I always play with my presents." , Greel's grin is far less loathsome than his touch. , Subtlety is not a necessary part of sabotage. , "Our ancestors adapted to this world of metal. Just as they did, we will adapt to this world of evil." , "A rumor passes among the snakes, whispered by the rushes, inspiring the seekers: the goddess Freyalise is alive in Skyshroud." , "The Izzet may incite war, but my duty is here. I will not abandon the wild." , As the green sun crowned, Phyrexian prophecies glowed on the Tree of Tales. , The other tribes call them fanatics, but none deny that the Mul Daya elves have an iron-strong bond to some force greater than themselves. , "I will not rest until every vestige of the Consulate—every banner, flag, and standard—has fallen." , Within a mile of the woodland, you will feel her eyes upon you. Within its borders, you will feel her blade. , "You burn. I'll pillage." , "Their guards are soft, ready to welcome a sharp dagger." , "One tiny peg pulled from a single wagon wheel, and an entire district grinds to a halt."
—Lazav , The vedalken protect the Knowledge Pool at any cost. , When griffins started nesting atop the northern tower, the castellan worried they'd be a nuisance. Instead, they took the entire castle under their protection. , "Where are falling feathers deadlier than falling rock?"
—*The One Thousand Questions* , Some griffins are able to pluck mystic auras from the Æther that are hidden from other mortals. , "Here is a companion who will never falter, no matter how desperate the battle!"
—Ajani Goldmane , After fighting alongside the griffin riders, older knights of Thune learned to admire a mount that could rip an enemy to shreds in seconds. , Once a griffin sentinel adopts a territory as its own, only death can force it to betray its post. , Even the small wounds let hope bleed out. , "I love what they've done with the place."
—Liliana Vess , When the battle is over, the bitterest foes at last find common ground. , Even on a world of metal, there are those who thirst for blood. , The invader hoped he could survive the beast's jaws and emerge through its rotting skin. , Most monsters are more frightening when they skitter unseen in the dark. Most. , Few among the living understand just how much of their world is shaped by the ruins of the dead. , "Hmmm—midnight snack." , "Nothing in nature goes to waste, not even the rotting corpse of a good-for-nothing, blood-sucking vampire."
—Halana of Ulvenwald , Occasionally the living wander to the Rivers, but the wardens of Athreos ensure that only the dead pass. , "Your enemies may be cowardly, my lord, but one should never call them gutless." , Beneath each gleaming mineral shell rots a once-proud warrior of Amonkhet. , "Fools dig for water, corpses, or gold. The earth's real treasure is far deeper." , Part prison, part home. , The Returned retain no memory of their identities, but sometimes they mindlessly attempt familiar tasks. , Beware a scarecrow bearing gifts—especially sloshing vessels of acid. , The necromancer's touch strips away memory and loyalty, and only strength and malice remain. , He'll point you to your death row seats. , "As a child I saw something walking in the distance, far beyond the Hekma—shadow-dark, and taller than the gods. Even now, it passes through my dreams."
—Pytamun, initiate of Nef crop , As blood touched the empty page, it formed words that seared themselves into the wizard's mind. , Pray you never hear it chime. , "Memory is a burden that wears at the soul as weather wears at stone."
—Crovax , It's drawn to the scent of screaming. , "Take care what you offer the ignus. Food, perhaps. Coins. But nothing flammable!"
—Stovic, village eccentric , "Would you abandon your past to save your future?"
—Ambassador Laquatus , When the world is consumed by chaos, the skilled and the foolish are on equal footing. , As the hand closed, there was first terror, then numbness, and finally nothingness. , "Even your blade knows who will triumph here."
—Atraxa, Praetors' Voice , "Beware the seagrafs just off the shore. These waters are filled with hungry geists looking for an easy meal."
—Captain Eberhart , "Avacyn emerged from the broken Helvault, but her freedom came at a price—him."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar , To the Golgari, anything buried is treasure. , "Watch people flock to a murder scene. Then tell me we're not all a little sick in the head."
—Juri, proprietor of the Juri Revue , No cartouches to earn. No afterlife to enter. Only the glory of a well-struck blow and the growing pile of felled enemies at her feet. , Loyal in battle, hearty in stew. , "There it was, clawing the ice as it chittered and clicked its teeth. We fled in horror before it unearthed its grisly meal."
—Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry , Vitals of Grixis who eschew undeath must scrape and scratch to retain their mortality. The result is a breed of inventive mages. , "So many choices. Shall I choose loathing, hate, or malice today?"
—Eliza of the Keep , "It's simple, really. If they can't find us, they can't kill us." , There is no height above Grixis that is free from the stench of death. , undefined , "There is no glory in a death of age, as even the leotau know. As winter steals into their coats, they seek the deadliest lands, that they may die as they lived."
—Aarsil the Blessed , undefined , "Before you release a Wolverine from the trap, make sure it's really dead."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain , "We cannot forget that among all of Dominaria's wonders, a system of life exists, with prey and predators that will never fight wars nor vie for ancient power."
—Jolrael, empress of beasts , It growls not to threaten, but to summon. , Mogglings caught in a misdeed often blame the grollub. Even though the creature is usually innocent, no taskmaster can resist an excuse to beat it. , "Everybody grab a leg!" , Naturally inquisitive and adaptable, goblins can turn their small stature to their advantage as rogues. , "I don't think he's bringing in the mail . . . ."
—Nundari, Sea Gate militia captain , The goblin fancied himself a rider. The lizard was happy with its new flail. , "A debtor's soul has little value, except as a warning to others who might consider defaulting on their loans."
—Ubea, Orzhov ministrant , "Taking down a dragon is easy. All you need is enough space to get in a good swing."
—Narbulg Nine Fingers , The earth's memory is long, its retribution brief. , "We've tracked Ludevic's monster across four provinces. When it lands, make sure it stays put."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig, to Halana of Ulvenwald , Endry was determined to teach his groundlings a few winged-faerie tricks. , People came from miles away just to see the head of the hammer. , Some time rifts didn't take away the people but just the ground they stood on. , "Let all we have buried be buried forever."
—Seton, centaur druid , "While the church thinks in terms of legacies, others think in terms of eternities." , "This world will not be tamed." , Spring is the most beautiful season in the grove, when the new leaves open from their ember-buds in a race of leaping flames. , "The land will not wait for the enemy to arrive."
—Nissa Revane , "The seedlings scream for us to loose them upon the Eldrazi, and we shall oblige." , "We will grow an army large enough to withstand the Izzet's madness."
—Trostani , undefined , "Shed your faded husk! Emerge sleeker and stronger!"
—Tyris, fauna shaman , Cyclical and spiral patterns are the specialty of the Gyre Clade, which seeks to revitalize the cycles of nature. , MORE TO LOVE: Friendly, nature-loving, Bunyonesque SEM seeks SEF looking for a huge commitment. . . . seeks atog prince , "Your defiance is noted." , She wanted to inspire terror wherever she went. The demons happily granted her wish. , "You were keen enough to sink your fangs into us, vampire! And now you're afraid of a few little nibbles?"
—Udvil "Ratty" Ratlock , "Variety is also the spice of death."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman , His whips twist and tremble like living things, moved by the fury of the horde he commands. , Though Gideon arrived at Sea Gate too late to prevent the massacre, he still had enough time to lead its survivors to relative safety. , "Does it matter what it is? Take it and be grateful!" , "Not Gruul? Then die!"
—Borborygmos , Forgotten under rocks and vines, Gruul symbols mark the sites of primitive rituals where shamans once chanted to the wild. , Enter and leave the shackles of society behind. , As perilous and unpredictable as the wilds themselves. , "In life, it was a cunning survivor, fearless and quick. May its power pass to you as you wear its skull."
—Gna, Gruul shaman , Petting the nodorog
—Gruul expression meaning "making a really big mistake" , "If the other guilds want a war, they should know we've been ready the whole time."
—Ruric Thar, Ghor-Clan chieftain , The Gruul aren't satisfied with just smashing things. They continue smashing other things with the things they just smashed. , Gruul territorial markings need not be legible. The blood, snot, and muck used to smear them are unmistakably Gruul. , She displays her scars with pride. , "We are the heart of the wild, the fire in its eyes, and the howl in its throat. Come, join the battle to which you were born."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman , "Steering apparatus?! What for? Rip it out, sharpen it, and lash it to the front!"
—Ktank, Gruul plowmaster , "Ghouls smashed the door, but I heard the call of the gryffs and knew we were saved."
—Ekka, shopkeeper of Hanweir , "He Guan Yu covered the ground on a thousand-li horse;/ With dragon blade he took each pass by force." , "A good guard is alert. A great guard is also loyal."
—Benalish kennelmaster , "I was told these were standard issue. Do I look standard to you?" , It lingers near the outposts of the Makindi Trenches, inadvertently granting another layer of defense. , The wealthy in the city of Ghirapur outfit their lives with grand machines, entrusting even their children to filigree and gears. , Approach in peace or not at all. , Although they're protective of all creatures, many treefolk are especially fond of the empathic kithkin. , Immune to the physical warping caused by Emrakul, geists proved to be some of humanity's most important allies. , "It seemed an easy thing, to step into the nothingness, to fall, to die. But then, for an instant, I saw it, eyes filled with endless sorrow, and I turned back to face my pain."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet , "At my feet, invasions end."
—Statue inscription , The magic of the Guildpact gives aegis to the spirits pressed into its service. Upon entering the afterlife, they find new focus and are charged with defending the Guildpact against those who would see it broken. , It stands sentinel to the great City-Tree, home of the Selesnya Conclave. , Simic's strength comes from its diversity. , Her gaze prevents the petty sins and her sword punishes the rest. , The soldier moved with fluid poise, his awareness extending far beyond five senses. , "Only by the bravery of those who put loyalty above glory is our home kept safe."
—Elspeth Tirel , Archaeologists depend on automatons inspired by their precious discoveries at Koilos to guard the excavations. , The histories speak of two feuding rulers whose deaths were celebrated and whose monuments symbolized the end of their wars. In truth they were peaceful lovers, their story lost to the ages. , A dozen fighting for each other are worth a thousand fighting for themselves. , The small are mostly ignored by dragons. , "May the Ancestor strengthen my hand and guide my blade."
—Nomad war prayer , "Retainer of eternal Sun! Life flash again upon thy wings."
—"Song to the Sun," Femeref song , "Hopefully Ravnica will prove harder to break."
—Karn , "Of course you're being followed!" , "The Gateless have risen. The Ten shall fall."
—Ninth District graffiti , In a climate of suspicion, Isperia gathered the guilds to propose a radical idea: cooperation. , Those who most feel guilt don't need to, while those who most need to feel guilt never do.
—Order proverb , "Fire will eventually destroy a zombie, but a fiery zombie destroys a lot of other things first."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors , If it could capture the power it wastes, it would be invincible. , When the giant returned for the night, he found a dead merfolk on his pillow. Although he praised the little guma, he inwardly wondered where she had hid the head. , If everything in the Gurmag Swamp hungers for human flesh, what bait could be more effective? , "Anything a falcon can do, a bat can do in pitch darkness."
—Urdnan the Wanderer , "Now I lay me down to sleep—
What are *you* starin' at?" , Don't trust your secrets to the sea. , Banking steeply, the aven streaked toward the ground—and vanished. , Cabal spies trying to follow the Order's movements are constantly frustrated by tracks that stop dead. , "Our death-arrows flew in high arcs towards the aven. And then . . . nothing."
—Coliseum guard , Entire platoons have mysteriously vanished from battle, leaving enemy weapons to slice through empty air. , They're trained in the art of pressing their luck. , Skysail's strength was also its vulnerability. , "The elves claim the canopy. The nacatl claim the mountains. I suppose you think we ought to stay on the jungle floor?" , Phyrexian smog clouds choked the skies, threatening creatures who couldn't comprehend the menace below. , "I'm never unarmed." , "Make sure those wretches feed only upon the plagued. The blood of the healthy is reserved for me alone."
—Garza Zol, plague queen , "Down here, we have a more pointed version of the scriptures."
—Urabrask's enforcer , "Down here, things don't stay dead."
—Lavinia , Upon finding his warehouse infested, Gaven didn't know whether to get an exterminator or an exorcist. , "I found a new toy. Wanna play?" , A savage cry with the power to shatter minds. , "Blood drips. Blood sings. Blood devours all and only blood remains."
—Ogre chant , Death comes in many forms on Guul Draz, most of them slow, subtle, and agonizing. At least a monstrous crocodile offers a swift death. , "A creature's bloodscent is a beacon that cannot be disguised." , "Everyone has a price." , Urborg became the final resting place of many swordsmen of renown, their steel outmatched by the wiles of Gwendlyn. , "As I contemplate what is, I dive ever deeper into the depths of possibility. Then I set an experiment in motion and watch the truth rise to the surface." , "This aura threatens the sanctity of your soul. Wrenching it free won't be easy on either of us. If you're ready, we'll begin." , Ravnica's convoluted power structure often boils down to who can muster the most swords on a given block. , "You two, cover the alley! You, with me! Eyes on windows, balconies, and rooftops. Who knows what a fish-octopus-crab can do!" , The Haazda shield is broad, protecting both the free and the guilded. , They've been probation officers, army grunts, bounty hunters—anything to make their district safer. , "They all want to see me fall." , "I toiled in Kazuul's mines when I was eight. I think I'm tough enough for a little hiking." , undefined , The creatures of Zendikar are opportunists, eating whatever is available to them. Like goblins. Or boats. , "When exploring the darkest regions, wickedness can be the best accomplice of all." , undefined , "It's hard to find their weak points, but I very much enjoy the discovery process." , "Do not let a single shaft loose until my word. And when I give that word, do not leave a single shaft in Eiganjo."
—General Takeno , "If they can't take the hail, they'd better stay home."
—Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain , "The Kami War drove many members of Konda's court insane. As their spiritual world turned against them, so too did their minds turn from reality."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , "Many have sought my weakness. All have failed." , His reputation precedes him—and so does his weapon. , "Earth to æther, window to wonder, stillness to the sky."
—Glazing incantation , Hail from Tolaria the ever changing 'Dane. , "Quiet the waves? Why would I want to do that?" , The stronghold of Theros's light. , Heroes act without thought of glory or reward. Accolades are a consequence, not a goal. , "Bend with the storm, then reply in kind." , "I'd rather hear the screams of battle than the quiet that follows."
—Talara, elvish safewright , The ever-watchful center of a growing web of eyes. , "On this site where Kjeld's blood was spilled, let none raise a fist or deny a beggar."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , Creatures of darkness instinctively hide from the light. , Hanging on the walls of his lair, the fallen halos cast his depravity in everlasting light. , An artificer's least favorite mind-missive may be "I regret to inform you that the funding for your project has been cut." , "If you live on a giant's back, there's only one individual you'll ever need to fear."
—Gaddock Teeg , "Bloodsuckers, howlers, monsters from the beyond . . . it doesn't much matter. I won't have to face them alone." , Giants know a solid hit is one part strength, four parts leverage. , It's less "music" and more "straightforward hearing damage." , "Oh sure, they buy a lot of ale, but I always find myself needing to rebuild after the giants have paid a visit."
—Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern , Cross the eyes of a hammerhead and you'll dot its teeth. , "'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view,/ And robes the mountain in its azure hue."
—Thomas Campbell, "Pleasures of Hope" , "Need a hammer? Gotta get your fix? I know a guy." , When he's holding the hammers, everything looks like a nail. , All the world is Purphoros's anvil. , By hammer forged, and by hammer undone. , "I want it to look me in the eyes and know the face of the man who put it down."
—Kelsien, the Plague , The most powerful of akki fire spells were developed at the cost of blood, toil, tears, sweat, and usually a nose or two. , It grew in lands lit by pride and watered by tears. , "That was fun! Now me."
—Gwendlyn Di Corci , "The sword is just a tool. It is the samurai's hand that delivers death." , The touch of death is never gentle. , "I believed in a beautiful god. But this is the true face of the divine."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric , "The sword is just a tool. It is the samurai's hand that brings it to life." , "The Hand of Justice will come to cleanse the world if we are true."
—Oliver Farrel , Silumgar trains those whom he favors in his magic, granting them the ability to spread his disdain across the land. , The match between Tahngarth and Greven was close only in the mind of the minotaur. , Early testing failed because the clones were all thumbs. , "I protect the Legacy with my life if necessary, for its purpose is far more important than my own."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , "I never thought I'd spend my life fighting. I'm a maker, not a destroyer." , "We're ready for anything!" , undefined , undefined , "If you fear poisons, it is because you are ignorant of them."
—Hapatra, vizier of poisons , Her subtle smile is suffused with venom. , Scholars possess such lofty knowledge that it shouldn't be surprising when they fall. , "I care nothing for treasure. The land beckons me, and I cannot rest until my feet have touched every inch of it." , Embrace the Harbinger
—Suq'Ata expression meaning "abandon hope" , An Atarka dragon's exhale cooks what its inhale consumes. , He always drops a little trinket into the bay as thanks to the merfolk who taught him all his best tricks. , "Our guardian levies a tax on all traders. Wise travelers pay with a minimum of fuss."
—Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat , Like most giant monsters villagers worship as gods, it proves a fickle master. , A good book is a refuge, but a great book is a fortress. , "Just let him loose and follow the charge."
—Yikaro, Atarka warrior , A pangolin's scales are resistant to all sorts of damage and weaponry. Desire for them threatens to drive the pangolin to extinction. , "Naga shed their scales. We wear ours with pride."
—Golran, dragonscale captain , For the Sun Empire, the Immortal Sun is a symbol of national identity. When they reclaim it, the Empire will flourish once more. , "One moment I was walking along the beach, and the next I was high in the air, staring into a hideous smiling face."
—Tarub, Suq'Ata sailor , After encasing it in a paralyzing beam of light, the angel studied the Eldrazi as a child would study a bug, curiously and without fear. , "Such an adorable face!" , When the eternal stars align, can mere mortals resist? , "Since the last sliver arrived, even our mightiest relics splinter into shards as soon as we bring them against the hive."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger , First among equals. , "Animals commune with their environment without the need for language. Theirs is a fundamental connection that surpasses flimsy words."
—Vivien Reid , Even when fate is already written, there's always time to change the names. , "There is no place like a rooftop laboratory in a lightning storm. It's where genius strikes."
—Renna, Selhoff alchemist , Made from whiskergill bones, merrow spinebows can fire bolts through tree trunks. , Moon Market merchants sell a bottled scent to cutpurses and other criminals. Those doused in the liquid become "griffin bait." , She trusts that the potent poisons of her darts will reach the enemy before the enemy reaches her. , The Roil redraws the world as it passes, leaving only the hedrons unchanged. , "There are always fools who attempt to traverse Kruin Pass before sundown and every time they wind up in a race for their lives."
—Old Rutstein , "At least they remember me."
—Gerrard , "Fight through it." , "There is no greater burden than choosing who to save."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte , "If you've done nothing wrong, you have nothing to fear."
—Enforcer-Chief Ranaj , The Shifting Wastes provide refuge to those who know where to look for it. , "In the end, the same soil lies atop the field, within the mountain, and under the sea." , "He is judge, jury, and executioner because he killed them all."
—Bishop Cawle of Elgaud , Having no interest in the greater conflict, the trolls continue to prey upon whatever wanders into their domain. , Not all shields are forged of iron or bronze. , She speaks only in vile epithets, spitting out curses and obscenities that harm others just by the hearing. , undefined , "Why should one limit oneself to the resources at hand?" , Corpses destroyed by fire form the most destructive geists. , A true reflection of nature: death fostering life. , The wurm's weave
—Elvish expression meaning "plowed fields" , "It's not much for eating, but I think we can find somethin' to do with it." , So wondrous to behold, so delicate and finely crafted—and yet, such a pleasure to smash. , It has no safe side. , From the echoes of a violent life, a terrible foe is born. , A trick of the light, though momentary, can still be deadly. , "Let my hate fuel your fury." , "I will flay the skin from your flesh and the flesh from your bones and scrape your bones dry. And still you will not have suffered enough."
—Greven *il*-Vec, to Gerrard , Bear the weight of so many spirits and you'll surrender civility and restraint to savagery and instinct. , It seemed as if no one wanted them to reach the Henge of Ramos—not even the dead. , A ghoulcaller's playground. , "Drain the victim's blood, sell the corpse, and use the soul on guard duty. No muss, no fuss, no problems."
—Olivia Voldaren , The Dimir employ the spirits of Ravnica's ancient, nameless dead, guiding their malevolence toward selected victims. , Like some foul herdbeast, it grazes on the dead. , The hymn's melody has persisted since Tourach's time, but the words changed to invoke the phobias of each listener. , "I am condemned without end."
—Crovax , These devices lured so many spirits that sometimes entire battlefields would become haunted at once. , Fusing intelligence with the power of undeath requires inspiration of the darkest kind. , "So many corpses, so little time." , An abomination so violent that the other fiends tremble at the sight of it. , "That slowly decreasing pulse—that's the beat I waltz to." , Time rifts bring tunneling beasts of old into the hard, dry earth of the present. Most die there, trapped, but the mightiest burst through the surface. , As Orim put the lightning rod into place on the bow, she cast a spell of protection to shield herself from the heat. That's when the Furnace got personal. , A cry of pain as it enters this world. A chorus of screams as it leaves. , For devils, burning things is the highest form of comedy, diversion, and artistic expression. , "We can't control enemies who have no regard for their own survival."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct , To the Rakdos, screams of delight and screams of terror are one and the same. , It grew with a terrible swiftness. , Each day at dusk the birds above the canopy grow silent. , "There are many reasons we invent, of which survival is not the least." , "Soon, Serra will return and choose the Abbot's successor, else we are lost."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron , Its breath leaves its prey too drowsy to struggle. , Few can overcome an assault of such aggressive serenity. , "The hazerider danced in the thunderstorm and sang to its music."
—Afari, *Tales* , Hazoret's gift is bestowed only once. , "The worthy shall rush to the God-Pharaoh's side with relentless zeal, rising to overcome every obstacle."
—Monument inscription , They hide in dreams and whispers and faraway thoughts. , ". . . The ghost rides forth to the scene of battle in nightly quest of his head . . . he sometimes passes along the Hollow, like a midnight blast . . ."
—Washington Irving, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , A head is a needless encumbrance when muscle is all that's required. , No tongue to chant, yet the forsaken hymn still emanates from its body. , A landslide of goblins poured toward the defenders—tumbling, rolling, and bouncing their way down the steep hillside. , "Your headstone is the last page in the book of your life."
—Murat, Death Speaker , "Watch your backs, keep your blades at hand, and let the orc go first!"
—Captain Brandis Thorn , "The elders say that if the intruders discovered the secret of the golden city, it would mean an end to our people." , "Sometimes even the smallest boon can save a life."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran Priest , "Grief and rage and nightmares fade
Where hope and comfort make their stand."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 4 , "No life is without meaning. No living thing is too small to be strong." , The wounded see the glow of its vials long before they see its wings diving out of the clouds. , "Whatever faith you have in Serra, she has more in you."
—Lyra Dawnbringer , The ethereal touch brings relief. The physical touch brings peace. , The elves of Llanowar don't trust in alchemy. They rely instead on pure herbs harvested from the forest's sacred heart. , "Xantcha is recovering. The medicine is slow, but my magic would have killed her."
—Serra, to Urza , Elvish battle-magic has evolved two specialties: inflicting wounds that scar, and healing wounds without scarring. Politics determines the recipients of each. , "I know one night it won't come back. Then I'll know it's truly done its job."
—Braenna, cobblesmith , "It is true that we monks hold the key to paradise, but most don't understand that the paradise we guard is the one within."
—Diary of Azusa , The mage looked within and realized there was still one piece of fuel to burn. , "I'd rather go out in a blaze of glory than fade away and be forgotten." , The flamekin are mere kindling for his warmth. , Hobgoblins are best left alone. They sharpen their farm implements far more than is necessary for their work in the fields. , "Every treachery, great or small, begets a spirit that rages at the injustice. Given the opportunity, each will return that treachery to its owner tenfold."
—Sensei Hisoka , "It's them or us."
—General Kudro , Hidetsugu held over a dozen oni in blood oath. At his touch, rocks scorched. At his word, cities burned. , "They won't be winning any beauty pageants, but they'll do the trick."
—Enslow, ghoulcaller of Nephalia , For those who reach enlightenment, violence is an unnecessary distraction. , Ramos bled, and there was fire. , Designed by an ancient artificer, the finest Mardu bows are carved from dragon bone and strung with the wind itself. , Gerrard looked all around for the source of the mysterious pulse, and at that moment the slivers boiled forth from the crevasses. , "Finding a true heartstone is even harder than finding a true heart."
—Hanna , "In Llanowar, we tend the forest's boughs and branches. In Yavimaya, we are a part of them."
—Rofellos of Llanowar , Kytheon had known war every day of his life. Now he finally knew peace. , To snare what lies between worlds takes the patient reach of trees. , Wind in the trees is soothing, but the same can't be said for trees on the wind. , Like all other relics, it was left on the Radix by the elves to be destroyed. Unlike all other relics, it persisted. , His roots reach deep, nurtured not by soil and rain, but by millennia of experience. , "In all my years in Llanowar I never understood where trees fit in. They are revered by elves and watered on by dogs."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , "Takara, it's me!" shouted Starke. It was no use—she obeyed Volrath. , "There was clearly a scream. I'm not sure if there was a mouth."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House , "Better to flare out than to gutter."
—Flamekin expression , "Stroke of heat or stroke of blade. Choose your fate, traitor."
—Maraxus of Keld, to Starke , It strides through the universe as though stepping on the stars, crossing freely between the celestial and earthly worlds. , "Soldiers wear down and enemies collapse—but the ballista never tires."
—Ballista captain , Doors, walls, skulls . . . it matters not. All barriers will be broken. , Their language may be a cacophonous agglomeration of chittering snorts and mad barking, but the message they send is all too clear. , His abode was clean and bare, not a morsel in sight. I asked him what he ate, fearing the answer. He smiled and said his faith alone sustained him. , "You've begun to understand the hedrons' true purpose," said Ugin. "The Eldrazi can be imprisoned."
"And how did that work out last time?" asked Jace. , Hedrons perplex minds both great and small. , "It's endearing, in a mystical, pointy sort of way."
—General Tazri, allied commander , The hedrons awoke along with the Eldrazi, forming superstructures that radiated overwhelming magic. , "Now that it has woken up and wandered off, we should go see what it was guarding."
—Gotzen, Bulwark explorer , "I don't care when the hedrons awoke. *Why* is the question that really matters."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage , "Channel your vitality through me." , "Once, I looked to the mists for wisdom. Now I wish only for understanding." , "The umber stain of the Thaw will be bleached away. Once again the world will be sharp, white, perfect!" , "It startles me how alive one feels on the edge of death."
—Barrin, master wizard , Some crystals glow in the presence of monsters, forming a convenient warning system. Some monsters have learned to outrun the light. , undefined , In the high caves of the Qal Sisma mountains, young hunters quest to hear the echoes of their fierce ancestors. , "The God-Pharaoh created the Hekma to protect us from the horrors beyond and to surround us in his love." , It could subsist on seeds but its preferred fare is your face. , "I bring a dawn that no night can follow." , The blessings of Heliod are apparent for all to see. , Hope kept the defenders aloft, but only courage kept them in the fight. , He doesn't slow until his spear is weighted with corpses. , Sometimes you go to hell, and sometimes hell comes to you. , "High on a throne of royal state . . . insatiate to pursue vain war with heav'n."
—John Milton, Paradise Lost , There is no fondness between the hound and its master. There is only a common appreciation of the hunt. , "I must speak with Momir Vig about creating a water-spouting watchdog."
—Mathvan, Prahv scrollwarden , Just when you thought you'd be safe, in the middle of an open field with no Eldrazi around for miles. , A killing machine from birth. , Its flight sets the sky itself on fire. , "The dragon has no pretense of compassion, no false mask of civilization—just hunger, heat, and need."
—Sarkhan Vol , "We'll pay no more tribute to that tyrannical lizard. A new age starts today!"
—Mayor Kadrim, now deceased , "They play by spitting fire at each other. Don't be offended if one gives you a love-scorch."
—Esfir, Rakdos dragon wrangler , Don't let him lead the soldiers, but by all means let him lead the way. , "Behind every devil's mayhem lurks a demon's scheme."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors , "The rules are clear. If you want to leave, you need only convince another to take your place." , The brightness of day turned in an instant to dusk as the swarm descended upon the battlefield. , "This little prize will cover your head, your spells, your bets, and your behind!"
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader , Whether inspired by fear or by honor, all loyalty lends might. , Its blessings are as numerous as the stars of Nyx. , Forged out of flowstone for the queen of Vesuva. , Centuries before the first peaks of the Oxidda Chain rewrote the laws of magnetism, the golems patrolled Mirrodin's featureless surface unhindered. , Like so many Thran relics, the wurm engine kept operating long after its creators were gone. , It is the hub. We are the wheel.
—Dryad saying , Everything that inhabits Garenbrig is affected by the wild magic flowing through the Great Henge. , The trumpeters of Arashin are ever alert in their watch over the Great Aerie. , The clerics prayed for salvation. The soldiers prayed for victory. Both prayers were answered. , "Some Eldrazi, their purpose is obvious: suck the life out of the land, birth new Eldrazi. Others aren't so obvious, and those are the ones that make me really nervous."
—Chadir the Navigator , "You might as well try to stop the waterfall." , Amonkhet's dead flowed into a new world in service to their God-Pharaoh. , "Welcome, one and all! Right this way! Open your eyes, your ears, and your imaginations to the wonders of the Inventors' Fair!" , The distinction of bearing the gods' banner is nothing compared to the glory of being closer to Nyx. , "Fear neither clouds nor darkness. The light shall overcome them all." , "Apply orange leaf to a wound at dawn to clean it, at dusk to prevent the same injury from happening again."
—Kithkin superstition , Long ago, the solitary gnarr was a sign of good luck. Now they have become wild pack hunters, a sign of impending danger. , "Study the great spirits of our age and those of the past. Prune secrets from the branching traceries of our lineage."
—Twila, Gilt-Leaf archdruid , "Books can be replaced; a prize student cannot. Be patient."
—Urza, to Barrin , Seeking the company of plants ensures that your wits will go to seed. , undefined , Travelers' tales claim that hydras bite off their own heads to make themselves deadlier. , Brashness is close enough to bravery. , They share no bloodline, but a bond greater than family unites them. Such are the gifts of the Worldsoul. , "Wear courage as your armor. Wield honor as your blade."
—Gerrard , "Wherever the strong would harm the weak, I will be there."
—Ajani Goldmane , Cries of anguish quickly spurred cries of action. , Sigarda was the last uncorrupted archangel, but she would not have to fight alone. , "They seek to break us. Let us show them our strength!" , "My left has felled a cyclops. My right has slain a giant. I bring both to every fight." , "You cannot achieve greatness if its seed has not already been planted in your heart." , When the established order falters, what remains are ordinary people and their struggle to survive. , Winners of the Iroan Games are forever remembered as heroes of their people. , Heroic deeds inspire new heroes. , Leonin fight for neither god nor polis; their loyalty is to their pride. , To tame a griffin is to ride into legend. , The best swords are forged with dragonfire. , "What will it say on our graves, Lord Konda? Will it say we led our world to conquer immortal forces or that we were crushed by our own arrogance? At each defeat, I wonder."
—Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda , Destiny exalts a chosen few, but even heroes break. , "Destiny, chance, fate, fortune—they're all just ways of claiming your successes without claiming your failures."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , Gerrard hesitated, looking up at the enemy ship. The future hesitated with him, changed forever by the pause. , "Their origins are shrouded in mystery. I believe they are the protectors of the lost secrets of our world."
—Jilaya, Temur whisperer , When killing five just isn't enough. , Drawn by power, fueled by conquest. , "Use everything. Iron, rust, scrap . . . even the ground must join our cause."
—Ezuri, renegade leader , The deep sleep of winter is not always restful. , Mogglings have been known to play ball with hibernating slivers, completely unaware of their true nature. , The only alert the invaders had was the rustling of leaves on a day without wind. , When these apes want something, it's a matter of gibbon take. , In the cellars beneath Narnam House, a strange and deadly garden grows. , If the presence of evil were obvious, it wouldn't be nearly as dangerous. , "Where moments before we were lost beyond hope, the strange, floating lights showed us the way and restored our morale."
—Vervamon the Elder , After an hour in the hidey-hole, Squee seriously pondered the advantages of danger over boredom. , It wants only to dress you in silk. , "A little dark magic won't stop me. The worse the curse, the better the prize."
—Radavi, Joraga relic hunter, last words , "Seeing you cower before me is its own reward." , Hidetsugu never relinquished a grudge. He let it burn within him, gathering ever greater intensity until the final moment of vengeance. , "The answers are here. This is the way through the trial." , Law protects but it also contains. , In the Rite of Redemption, nobles take the same vows as Elenda, the first vampire, and make the same eternal sacrifice. , "All the dead sleep lightly here, no matter how refined their beds may be."
—Grafdigger Wulmer , With the bloodchiefs annihilated in the fight between the free and the enthralled, the swamps around Malakir are full of dangerous, young vampires eager to make their marks. , Once the felidar has marked you as prey, there's no point in running. , In war, as in society, position is everything. , He gets paid by the axe. , "Bring down a stag and fix its horns upon Arel's head. She hears the wisdom of our ancestors."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice , Though slow-witted and slow-moving, they are quick to anger. , "A place like this makes me wonder if there's more to life than blood and treasure . . . Nah."
—Boyl Bucksalt, Storm Fleet swab , "Our noble land, enslaved by Rime, Is it our fate to freeze through time? If this be true, oh wicked crime."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings* , If it can't be had here, it can't be had on any world. , "All I require is faith, loyalty, obedience, trust, and complete and utter devotion." , Bend as the wave breaks or it will break you as well.
—Saprazzan saying , "If nothing else, the Inventors' Fair taught us that we're only beginning to discover aether's true potential."
—Kershan Danil, Highspire artisan , Its wings produce a high-pitched, barely audible whirring sound in flight. Only Jeskai masters are quiet enough to hear one coming. , "There's nothing like the high seas to clear your head or escape pursuers." , "Tonight, madam, it's your money and your life." , Trapped on Ixalan, the Planeswalker Angrath is the only minotaur sailing the seas. No matter how many ships he captures, he cannot break free. , The giants believe the fossils they find in Lorwyn's rocky heights are dreams frozen in time, and they treasure them. , Fortunately, hill giants have large blind spots in which a human can easily hide. Unfortunately, these blind spots are beneath the bottoms of their feet. , "Do not react to force in kind. Turn it aside. Direct it to where it can do no harm."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror , Centuries of careful practice have elevated the casting of protective spells to an art form. What little offensive magic remains on Bant stands little chance of breaching them. , "Woodlands and laws. Both grow faster than the Azorius's ability to manage them."
—Suniel the Woodwise , "As a kid, I dreamed of flying on those wild drakes. They inspired me to build wings of my own."
—Nadja Cloudtoucher, aerowright , "Our ancestors brought down a Phyrexian portal ship, then built our town on its hull. We're pretty proud of that."
—Alene of Riverspan , undefined , undefined , "Practice makes perfect, but obsession makes better." , "Someone once said that hipparions are to warriors what aesthir are to skyknights. Don't believe it."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , "If you want them dead, buy some poison. If you want them to have the worst day of their life before dying, then let's talk price." , "They don't even feel the cut. I'm ordering a drink in a nearby tavern before anyone notices something's wrong." , "Follow your passion, I always say. Might as well get paid to do what you love." , "By all rights we should have perished in the Kami War. Our perseverence is a tribute to mortal ingenuity. And perhaps a few forgotten secrets found in the nick of time." , "With every passing day, the kami shape our world to suit their will. I, for one, would not see them succeed." , It's pretty cute—from a distance. , All that remains when the fog finishes are neat piles of polished bones, like acid-etched glass. Orzhov servants collect them to make altar chimes. , "Come and listen. I'll tell you the story of a nation lost to time, and of the man who caused it." , Nearly invisible strands of web reach for beyond its lair to alert it of the approach of prey. , "All consciousness is one, separated only by a thin veil of the physical."
—Jace Beleren , Sliver young are sorted into clutches according to their potential and their future role. Human scholars can only guess how those are determined. , Rath's evincars used hivestones to control the slivers, but the overlay put their power into unwitting hands. Now the stones make not masters, but slaves. , He collects the precious metals, and then converts the rest to propellant. , "The creature we fought in the western waste was doubly dangerous: mortally wounded, it rebounded and attacked again."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , Bedbugs aren't the only things you need to worry about biting you at night. , The faeries snickered at first. A common hob in Oona's skies? But his lance ended their mockery, and now the sound of a cicada's wings brings a shudder to the faerie heart. , Zarv no longer trusted the kitten posters telling him to "hang in there." , It was Daeron's bravery that brought him to Odunos. But it was the magic of Meletis that brought him home. , Even in areas of profound devastation, the hedrons remained intact. , "We grew up on these streets. We know them better than any Boros grunt from Zelzo." , "Forgive me, Master Kami, but in the interest of my people I must halt your advance." , It leaves a trail of crumpled trees and dashed dreams. , A hollow dog is never empty. It is filled with thirst for the hunt. , "Brilliant! They evolved away from energy-taxing brains and respond only to spinal reflex arcs from the hive mind."
—Rukarumel, field journal , In a world of monsters, it's the stuff of nightmares. , After werewolves slaughtered the citizenry of Hollowhenge, other creatures moved in. , Some spirits mourn. Others terrorize. , The embodiment of yearning, forever drifting the deserts to find what had once made it whole. , Dreams of dark nights to come are said to stir in the minds of scheming hollowsages. , Though it moves like a living thing, anyone can tell it lacks a soul—not to mention mercy. , "Today there is feasting and peace across our land, but the war has not ended. Tuck away your bloodlust. You'll need it tomorrow."
—Karrim, Samite healer , Her eyes see through the rotting flesh and glimpse a soul in agony, begging for the Blessed Sleep. , "Bathed in hallowed light, the infidels looked upon the impurities of their souls and despaired."
—The Book of Tal , "The guilds promise to provide safety. I prefer to make my own."
—Briska, Ninth District freemage , "Born under the sun, the first child will seek the foundation of honor and be fortified by its righteousness."
—Codex of the Constellari , "Homarids spread northward from Sarpadia as the climate cooled, raiding coastal settlements for supplies."
—*Time of Ice* , "The ground grew swampy; hooves and claws sank into the marshy earth. Snarls of rage and bleats of despair echoed through the trees as the waters grew higher and higher."
—Kyliki of Havenwood, "Havenwood Remembered" , "Let your heels point you home."
—Ancient blessing , "Damned crows and their endless squawking . . . blocks out the voices in my head . . ."
—Hermit of Hanne Hall , "I see countless worlds. What makes them think I can't find them in just one?"
—Ral Zarek , To the sorrow of all, its fire was turned toward those who worshipped it. , To the sorrow of all, its rage became focused on those who once stoked it. , To the sorrow of all, its web became a net that strangled those who helped weave it. , To the sorrow of all, its dark reach grasped and crushed those who guarded its silent vigil. , To the sorrow of all, its winds found sin in the hearts of those who once learned from its wisdom. , Blades and bravery go hand in hand. , "And I thought *I* had a big sweet tooth."
—Gannet, Skysail zoologist , "I've faced your kind before. This time I'm ready for you." , Her words inspire action. Her actions inspire victory. , Even gods have pets. , The strength of one. The courage of ten. , Together the soldiers were like a golden blade, cutting down their enemies and scarring the darkness. , It seldom rains in Abzan lands. When it does, the khan marks the occasion by honoring the families of the fallen. , "May the River claim Cho-Manno's body, wherever it lies."
—Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer , In life, they revered a diverse pantheon of gods. Now they revere only the God-Pharaoh. , Before being presented to its lord, each shaku is blessed by every hero of every region within that lord's domain. , Nagas wielding twin daggers excel at the fighting technique known as the Bite of Rhonas. , Insidious fear can be the undoing of the greatest of armies. , The spread of its hood eclipses all hope. , The youths of Rishada's marketplace are always ready for a quick footrace. , It hunts with the memory of a long lost herd. , Interlopers in Sultai territory usually end up as crocodile chow or baboon bait. , "I have given my life to the church, my soul to Avacyn, and my heart to the people." , "Serra ruled by faith. I cannot afford that luxury."
—Radiant, archangel , The renegades mounted an aether disruptor aboard a lightweight thopter to destroy Tezzeret's Planar Bridge. , Some refused to leave their shattered homes, vowing to rebuild at any cost. , Designed to carry equipment across rivers, the hopping automaton was soon pressed into service in the infantry. , "Leave no scraps, lest you attract pests."
—Mardu threat , Strategies don't come easily to the boggarts' feral minds, but full-on assault hasn't failed them yet. , Even the oldest treefolk was but an acorn when Lorwyn's first mysteries were born. , The day is born within its branches. , "Do not try to make sense of the chimera. Impossibility is its habitat."
—Kydele, prophet of Kruphix , Using thermal updrafts and gravity currents, drakes eat and sleep in the air. Some never touch the ground from birth until death. , In peaceful times, these beings escorted the honored kami to their new shrines. In the Kami War, they became the medics of an unstoppable army. , Kruphix once dreamed that he travelled beyond the edge of the world to an unfamiliar land.Curious, he picked up a rock, and awoke to find it had followed him from dream to reality. , "We share the same nuanced opinion of hunters and military goons: smash them." , "The Selesnya are gathering armies. Do you still believe they aren't preparing for war?"
—Teysa, to Isperia , "I think she wants us to eat it," said Squee, staring at the oily carcass the cheetah had dragged to their fire. , "That didn't happen naturally," said Multani. "Rath's overlay is interfering with the Æther itself." , A bristling wave of slivers broke against the Weatherlight's timbers. , Sword hilts jut from some trolls' bodies where wounds healed so fast that the weapons were trapped inside. , "So like men are they: a hardened shell with fragile flesh beneath."
—Selenia, dark angel , "Then inch by inch out of the grass rose up the head and spread hood of Nag, the big black cobra, and he was five feet long from tongue to tail."
—Rudyard Kipling, *The Jungle Books* , "And though she didn't get her honey, Auntie found something far more interesting."
—A tale of Auntie Grub , It was only then—to his infinite sorrow—that Gork realized hornets don't make honey. , "A blast, an echo . . . then silence." , "Rath grows, and I am nourished."
—Volrath , "This horn is an exact replica of the fabled Horn of Ramos, except mine is more lavish."
—Mercadian magistrate , Ramos touched, and there was life. , Being a merciful pirate, she saved the vampire's gold from falling overboard. , "From the ashes of Reito rose a new kami. And thereafter at every battle came Horobi, Death's Wail."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , Few are able to underestimate the hordes. , "We are nothing but dust to them—our bodies, our actions, even our words."
—Jori En, expedition leader , "Ours is a glorious transmission! Behold a future where all bow to the Father of Machines."
—Isila, Priest of Sheoldred , "And a horror of outer darkness after,/ And dust returneth to dust again."
—Adam Lindsay Gordon, The Swimmer , It feeds on dry bones in the sand and desperate pleas in the wind. , "Lesser minds can scarcely imagine such a marriage of necromancy and mind magic."
—Strava, Dimir mage , In the final days before the disaster, all the crabs on Tolaria migrated from inlets, streams, and ponds back to the sea. No one took note. , Amonkhet's desiccated land thirsts for blood. , The bellow of a minotaur always translates to "charge." , Lorwyn's crust explodes with power when the greater elementals are born. The flamekin use the fallout as cover for forays into enemy territory. , It's not a carpet moth, it's a feature. , As he races the moon each night, he draws a glowing equator across the world. , "Comin' through!" Designed by James Ernest , Warmth is life; heat is peace. , As you hear it baying in the distance, you'll feel its breath on your neck. , "Everything here exists or perishes at my whim. Including you, Gatewatch."
—Nicol Bolas , To serve as an eternal is the afterlife granted to the worthy. , The gods of the trials also faced the opportunity to prove themselves worthy. , With the Hekma breached and its protection removed, the deserts swept in. , Those who are chosen do not doubt. Those who remain do not lament. , In the first moments, the gate to the afterlife opened, and the people were prostrate in the light of the God-Pharaoh. , As whispers and rumors increased, so did the demand for fail-safe barriers. , It could be made to run silently, but its low hum reminds the Neurok that they are always watched. , They only appear in emergencies, and emergencies never last long. , Originally created to harvest blinkmoths, the hovermyr are now the silent observers of a dying world. , Whether it howls for hunger or for joy, you're in trouble just the same. , Villagers cloaked the town in magical silence, but their ears still bled. , I howl my soul to the moon, and the moon howls with me. , He and his pack sing the same mournful song to the moon. , It wails of buried riches and the souls lost seeking them. , The mine's riches never end, nor do the moans of the spirits doomed to haunt them. , The murderous horrors of Raven's Run are legendary, but even that haunted place goes quiet when the night wolves howl. , The renewed howling of werewolves announced the end of the Cursemute—and the beginning of Avacyn's madness. , Wolves and werewolves join together for the common cause of the hunt. , "Virile in war, he kept the north in fear; His prodigies subdued the western sphere." , The essence of Ixalan was never far from Huatli's heart. , Don't make the mistake of thinking blunt horns can't kill. , "Run like the wind, fierce one. The hunt has begun." , "You wish to learn of Nyx? Very well."
—Phenax, god of deception , "Are you sure this is going to work?" asked Will. "No," said Rowan. "But if it does, it's going to be spectacular." , Anyone can get around a cyclops, but few can stand in its way. , Fear the patient devil, the one who is calm in the midst of chaos. Beware the silent devil, the one whose cackle does not mingle with the others. , The bigger they are, the harder they avoid work. , Once they realized the ogre had more size than speed, the soldiers simply went around it. , "Crovax knows we're coming now," said a grinning Sisay. "I just sent the *Predator* crashing into his stronghold." , "I have seen a hundred mortal families rise and fall. I shall outlast a thousand more."
—Olivia Voldaren , Through failure we learn our finest lessons in humility. , Each time wanderers entered the forest seeking enlightenment, Dosan was there, waiting for them to arrive. , "You were once Mardu, so your body and will are strong. Now we must train your mind."
—Houn, Jeskai elder , "The key to bonding with monsters, no matter their size, is knowing where they like to be scratched." , The anger of the gods multiplied in Nyx, and the land awoke in dark echoes of their rage. , "The element of surprise only works when it's backed up by a bolt between the eyes." , "One cannot cleanse the wounds of failure."
—Karn, silver golem , The elves learned long ago that anything left here slowly vanishes. Now it is a sacred site where the dead are laid to rest and where unnatural magic is erased forever. , Searching the city for Fblthp felt like sifting the rain for a single drop of blood. , "You would never guess, at the terrifying sight of the man, that Hunding was as charming a companion as one could wish for." , "New links are being added to the food chain on a daily basis."
—Riptide Project researcher , No clan is as adept at saying "go away" as the Temur. , "Werewolves are an unholy mix of a predator's instinct and a human's hatred."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig , Their pain is so great, they can't help but share it with others. , In the hold of the *Heart of Kiran*, Chandra answered Dovin Baan's sabotage with an explosive retort. , Mooo. , "If the air must feed, let it take the self-righteous."
—Murat, death speaker , If a spriggan's eyes are larger than its stomach, it has ways to remedy the situation. , "Springjacks and faeries can be difficult to hunt, but my favorite prey are the flamekin. They never fail to put up a worthy fight when cornered." , The knights see a mighty quarry. The dragon sees breakfast, lunch, and dinner. , Even after Hanweir was saved, Gisa's lost ghouls would shamble through, still following the twisted orders of their imprisoned master. , The lammasu ruled the velds before the city grew. Now they roam Ravnica's skies, but their ancient enemies have not forgotten them. , "The cruelest monsters inspire the greatest tales. The greatest tales inspire the cruelest hunters."
—Rielle, the Everwise , He ferried weapons, spells, exotic animals—but his most dangerous cargo was the truth. , Just one can feed a dozen people for a month. , Snokk ran as fast as he could, but the sound of hooves grew ever louder in his ears. , First you lose your enemy's trail. Then you lose all sense of direction. Then you hear the growls . . . , The hunt ends. Lunch begins. , Those who kill a jawspur rhino must prepare spells to lift the carcass—even a dozen hunters can't lift its bulk. , "The predator knows the true way of the world. Life is conflict. Only the strong survive."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , Once they get the scent, there is no escape. , To be counted among the warriors of Setessa's Leina Tower, you must not fear death, only failure. , Even the fiercest beast will flee when faced with the possibility of becoming dinner. , In the heavy hush of Krosa, drawing on mana is like ringing a dinner bell. , Dominarians gladly fought alongside kavu . . . until the kavu figured out some Dominarians were quite tasty. , "Eyeblights are easy to track. Just follow the imperfections." , "A grudge is a tattoo worn on the inside."
—Setessan warrior saying , "Death lizard approaching, cap'n!"
—Brint Doobin, last words , Hurkyl's research at the College of Lat-Nam wasn't enough to stop the two brothers, but for centuries thereafter her spellcraft taught artificers restraint. , The minotaurs of the Hurloon Mountains are known for their love of battle. They are also known for their hymns to the dead, sung for friend and foe alike. These hymns can last for days, filling the mountain valleys with their low, haunting sounds. , "I believe it when they say they're connected to the land—looks like somebody plowed her face."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight* , "Nothing comes between me and my Didgeridoos™." , "Things were popping like corn in a skillet. Olly landed in the pig pen with his prize sow on top of him, both squealin' like boggarts."
—Deagan, cenn of Burrenton , "Don't envy the grandeur of drakes. Their impression of grace fades when the first gust sends them crashing into one another."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer , "Let's begin this conversation again, and this time you will only listen." , An overwhelming sense of calm accompanies the gryffs that wheel above the roofs of Gavony. , "You think no one is watching, you think you're smart enough to escape, and most foolish of all, you think no one cares."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct , "The lemures looked harmless, until they descended on my troops. Within moments, only bones remained."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield , Less housebroken than housebreaking. , "We should learn from the hydra. It never plays favorites; it devours everyone equally."
—Thrass, elder druid , Fire can be savage, but it is fickle. Water is always true, its flow steady and world-shaping. , "While the sea may be our home, the sky is our destiny."
—Prime Speaker Zegana , Havoc is a small price to pay for data. , "I don't need your mage-rings or your mana equations. I call, and the sea answers."
—Keyta, rebel hydromancer , In front of every strong leader is a pool of loyal bodyguards. , "The only kind of water that should fly through the air is rain."
—Kamahl, pit fighter , "Thirsty?"
—Drunvalus, hydromancer , With carrion a rarity in the Broken Lands, the hyenas that stalk the deserts hunt in packs. , "There will come soft rains, and spring shall be amongst us, a welcome friend."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , Many attempt to speak with nature. Selvala speaks less, and nature answers more. , The priests plead for your anguish and pray for your despair. , "The smith a mighty man is he/ With large and sinewy hands./ And the muscles of his brawny arms/ Are strong as iron bands."
—Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, The Village Blacksmith , "Even this primitive specimen of my kind is impressive."
—Niv-Mizzet , Zap on. Zap off. , Its victims are known by their eyes: shattered vessels leaking broken dreams. , "It's like blowing up an arcane library in a thermobaric explosion. But in a good way."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker , The scouts of Hyrax Tower keep watch at the edge of Setessan territory, protecting the polis from inhuman monsters and enemy armies. , "The panic is amusing, but the real fun comes when the spell passes and the villagers start looking for a scapegoat."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist , "Everybody but me—CHARGE!" , A thousand years removed from her home, her news of war had lost its context, but not its relevance. , The Icatian army easily repelled early surprise attacks by the Orcs on border towns like Montford. , To become an officer, an Icatian soldier had to pass a series of tests. These evaluated not only fighting and leadership skills, but also integrity, honor, and moral strength. , Even after the wall was breached in half a dozen places, the phalanxes fought on, standing solidly against the onrushing raiders. Disciplined and dedicated, they held their ranks to the end, even in the face of tremendous losses. , Grelden knelt and felt the cool, dry hand of the priest on his brow. Hours later, when his wits returned, he was covered in his enemies' blood on the field of victory. , "Because the orc hordes attacked along the entire border, Scouts were essential to Icatia's defense."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. VI* , Skirmishers engaged raiders before they could reach the towns. Although these units typically suffered huge losses, they never lacked volunteers. , Icatia's once peaceful towns faced increasing attacks from orcs and goblins as the climate cooled. By the time the empire fell, they were little more than armed camps. , Its shell can withstand anything but a thaw. , Even the oppressive cold of the cave could not temper Eladamri's ire. , As the Thaw met Terisiare, mountains shed their icy skins, crushing homes and hopes alike. , In colder climates, ice is more obedient than stone. , "Slow the Consulate with whatever you've got!"
—Jasi Ganin, master siphoner , "When the earth shakes, and their animals are swallowed up by the ground, perhaps they will think twice before attacking again."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , The first explosion that didn't excite goblins. , "Our glorious infection has taken hold."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite , Tycthis's military career was a flop. , "Do not think the sand or the sun will hold back the breath of winter." , Ice may thaw, but malice never does. , The apprentice stared in puzzlement. "But Master, you finished writing those spells just yesterday. Don't you remember?" The jushi's heart froze. , "To join our ranks, one must be pure. To be pure, one must be blessed by etherium. To be blessed, one must forget oneself."
—Ethersworn prayer , Inspiration strikes the uncluttered mind. , "Arise, great one, and cleanse the world of our enemies!" , Every hero's journey starts somewhere. , "You are loved, child." , Some dogs just aren't meant to be indoor pets. , Volcanic violence made manifest. , "The creature rose from the mountain, its body weeping fire."
—Afari, *Tales* , The shaman prowled the academy halls, shaking his head at the pomp and babble of the sages inside. He knew just the spell to liven the place up. , "If you can't save yourself, you fight to give someone else a chance."
—Ajani Goldmane , Cowardice is a term invented by those with no cunning. , "A quick step beyond oblivion lies a place so full of thoughts that it leaves no room for your own."
—Quyzl, chronarch prodigy , No mortal could atone for Ihsan's betrayal. Redemption required him to become something else. , "Now the scaled ones rule Tarkir." , Urza thought it a crusade. Xantcha knew it was a robbery. , "The suffering of others is not my concern." , "Selesnya denied us tribute. Let's show them the error of their ways."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate , A cyclops has two moods: angry and asleep. , Most such relics remain clasped shut for fear of what ominous truths might be carved into the diptych inside. , For a moment, Urza thought not of war and destruction, but of the freedom of the skies. , "A brilliant light can either illuminate or blind. How will you know which until you open your eyes?"
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , "This school was founded in secret, operates in secret, and exists for the teaching of secrets. Those who would alter reality must first escape it."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , "We could feel the Shaman's power, as surely as we felt the storm."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "Illusion is a handy but fragile medium. Use it only in a pinch, or against the dim-witted."
—Jace Beleren , "The drawing of maps is fruitless in the west near the ice walls; the very earth is formless."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "Let them see what is not there and feel what does not touch them. When they no longer trust their senses, that is the time to strike."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , It's easy to believe you're a god when you're twice as powerful as everyone else. , "When everything hangs on a single moment, be sure you choose the right moment."
—Jace Beleren , "Please vote with a clear head and vigilant heart, knowing each voice is meaningful regardless of the outcome."
—Ottavio d'Oro, Electoral Committee Speaker of Paliano , "Violence is the food it craves. Feed it if you dare."
—Doriel, mentor of Mistral Isle , "In a daze, I woke and looked upon the battlefield, where I could swear my dreams were laying waste to the enemy."
—Letter from a soldier , In the Maelstrom, a trick of the light can feast on human flesh. , "No amount of strength can help you overcome my trial. You must be ready to forgo your body and favor your mind."
—Kefnet, god of knowledge , Those who die as heroes are permitted to dwell in Ilysia, a protected realm of the Underworld as tranquil and vibrant as the rest is bleak. , When Otarians learned not to trust wizards, the wizards learned to adapt. , "It followed me home. Can I keep it?" , Liliana always knew Jace's illusions would come in handy. , "Just looking at it fills me with dread . . . . Yet since it arrived, I've done little else. My blades have dulled and my business has failed, and still I cannot look away."
—Keisaku, master swordmaker , Elves of the immaculate class weave flora into living creatures—sometimes to endorse an elite warrior, sometimes to create a breathing work of art. , It denied the Zendikari the chance to stand and die fighting. , "The sun can warm your skin or blister it, nurture your crops or wither them, light your path or blind you. She is a fickle friend, but a far worse enemy."
—Nazra of the Stone Havens , "Nice army you had there." , "We thank the souleaters for melting the sinful that we may be reminded of our own insignificance."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude , "Hello, kindling." , Their fires burn quietly, allowing the phoenixes to glide silently through the canyon. , "The fine print of countless contracts has ensured we are never defenseless."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov , "If their ears are to the ground, we will make them bleed!"
—Taklai, Kolaghan warrior , Never let the glitter of gold distract you from the gleam of steel in the shadows. , "Interrogation is an unnecessary step for acquiring information."
—Politus, Gitaxian morphologist , In times of unrest, the crowd is eager for the comfort of strong convictions. , "I'm going to count to three. Three." , To a trained warrior, there is scarcely a more potent weapon than patience. , "The goblins are in charge of maintenance? Why not just set it on fire now and call it a day?"
—Whip Tongue, viashino technician , "Feast, for your next meal may be your last!" , Its assistance is unnervingly similar to its hunting technique. , "The music of blades against its silver armor merely inspires it to bellow more full-throated melodies."
—Huatli , Frustrated with Cao Cao's control of the imperial court, Emperor Xian secretly issued an edict condemning him, using his own blood as ink. , "Together my mount and I are stronger than either of us apart." , Her mount's hollow crest can produce a trumpeting warning that carries for miles, summoning more knights to her aid. , A passionate recruiter will win a war before the first arrow flies. , "If Heaven has placed it in your hands, it means that the throne is destined to be yours." , "An ancient, powerful force has overtaken the valley. I sympathize for its former inhabitants, but I rejoice for the land itself."
—Olanti, Muraganda druid , The rights of ghosts are strictly protected under Orzhov bylaws, and those who enforce them can count on the ghosts' assistance. , In a culture of beauty, the most beautiful are worshipped as gods. , The ultimate answer to intrigue and subtlety. , "I will soar higher than the walls of Akros! Higher than the clouds! Higher than Heliod himself!" , A dream of fire lies coiled inside, waiting for its glorious awakening. , A tool to see the unseen. , A mystery in metal. , Relics of the Order of the Ebon Hand, the bowl and dagger bespeak the hideous cruelty of its rituals. , To save Dominaria, nine planeswalkers sought the annihilation of Phyrexia itself. , Some are born to rule. The rest are born to bow before them. , Raugrin's coastline can be quite beautiful, as long as you avoid the volcanic dinosaurs, the sea dinosaurs, and the roaming beach dinosaurs. , With the horrible mask, Lagfrak the Low terrorized the countryside. But then he met Il-Chunt, the mask's model . . . . , The tribe was as strong as his longing, their territory as vast as his isolation. The changeling knew he had found a home, and a form. , Only one vault was great enough to hold Emrakul. , "I agreed to light his way as long as he always had my back."
—Squill, Mistford pixie , For the Scuzzback gang, it's always "raid o'clock." , "I trust what I make for myself. Do you trust more what is made for you by another?" , "Do the innocent pay for the crimes of the guilty? Of course they do. That's the fate of the weak."
—Nicol Bolas , "You call it luck. I call it preparation." , "To prevent action is to prevent transgression."
—Azorius Arrester motto , Iname revels in sadistic glee at the crushing of souls, but soon mourns the lives so cruelly cut short. So the cycle begins anew. , Iname rejoices in the dawn of a new life, but soon becomes jealous of the simple joys denied him by his station. So the cycle begins anew. , "Your contract is in default. You belong to me now. Serve, or die."
—Nicol Bolas , "What's your plan?" Gideon asked.
"Are you serious?" Chandra replied. , The flamespeakers of Akros live passionately, devoted to Purphoros and the cycle of destructive creation. , "All of those Consulate safety measures undone with one simple tweak." , "Who said there are no assurances in life? I assure you this is going to hurt." , The veneer of rationality peeled from the mage, revealing the spite and rage beneath. , "The Boros say they want to bring order to Ravnica. Funny then, how well they use chaos."
—Trigori, Azorius senator , After a hundred failed patent applications, Cornelian was stunned to find that no one had ever created a steam-powered autonomous ice cream delivery system. He immediately designed a gnome with scoops for hands. , Nothing breaks the monotony like a good old-fashioned riot. , "Ah, to be young again."
—Olivia Voldaren , Shadowmoor's main crops are rot, slime, and despair. , "Tie a mouse under a bridge, and your cabbages will triple in size."
—Kithkin superstition , The touch of an Eldrazi brings life and death in turn. , Each mutation causes the incurables to look vastly different from one another. They are left with only one thing in common: their insatiable lust for the slaughter. , "Work for the Dimir again? That depends. Tell me more about this maze." , Crystals nestle in the roots of Indatha's helica trees as if being nurtured by their embrace. , "These lowlands were formed thousands of years ago by behemoth Indath—its final footsteps before vanishing into the sea."
—*Tales of the Ozolith* , "Forgive me, Saburo. I could not save you. But your blade will not rest in my hand." , It's not always clear who's the master and who's the servant. , All it knows is the difference between friend and food. , "The empire, long united, must divide, and long divided, must unite." , "By all means, keep trying." , Theodar strode the battle lines, snatching swords with his bare hands and casting them aside until all cowered before him. , "What good is having all the right answers if you have them at all the wrong times?" , "You should see your face right now." , "Odum and Broadbark were the only beings mighty enough to challenge the giant Moran the Destroyer. Their battle lasted a hundred dawns, until Moran became so exhausted that he fell into namesleep. He awoke as Moran the Gardener."
—*The Tale of Odum and Broadbark* , "Every sword drawn to defend is an angelic blade, guided to justice by an angelic hand."
—Auriok proverb , "Charge bravely. Fight selflessly. Act honorably. Iroas will watch over you."
—Verenis, priest of Iroas , "An indrik's howl has destructive power much subtler than that of its crushing foot. The sound is mundane, but inaudible vibrations scatter and sunder magical contrivances."
—Simic research notes , All the angel saw was her doom. , "If you're not surrounded by decadence, my question to you is—why not?" , The promise of anguish is payment enough for services rendered. , "Just a nibble for now. I wouldn't want to ruin my appetite." , "Hallowed be this assortment of diverse things!" , "Hallowed be this potpourri of sundry goods!" , "Hallowed be this collection of miscellaneous items!" , "Hallowed be this assemblage of various stuff!" , "Hallowed be this gathering of eclectic products!" , "Hallowed be this compilation of mixed objects!" , "I wouldn't want you to hurt yourself."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader , "The Izzet are blamed for every little disaster, which is unfair because we only cause most of them."
—Mizzix of the Izmagnus , If you think you made it past him alive, he's just teasing you. , "How many more will die before you accept your fate?"
—Erebos, god of the dead , "See how gratefully this world accepts our blessings."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur , "Swords, to me! We must engage their line to protect our archers and mages. Let no one fail this task!" , Not once in the history of Grixis has anyone died of old age. , "Lost man, dead man, knocking on the door. Cankerman, soreman, knock no more."
—Ravnican children's rhyme , "East and West meet and angels cry. Unholy power darkens the sky."
—"The Ballad of the Paladins" , "I thought the day had brought enough horrors for our ragged band, but the night was far worse."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield , "I offered you eternal life; I just didn't say *where*."
—Shauku, Endbringer , The kirin bellowed—an echoing, twisted parody of its once-inspirational call. , "Oh mighty Griselbrand, Scourge of the Heedless World, gladly I consume myself for thee!" , "When these intruders are gone, Zendikar will be my throne, my palace, my playground." , One who is marked by a demon in life is sure to be remembered as one in death. , "I would not barter my soul for any of the filth that they called power. So they took it from me and damned me to solitude."
—Crovax , See evil, hear evil, speak evil. , "Some have said there is no subtlety to destruction. You know what? They're dead."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , "Those who wish to invade our monastery, please take it up with my servant."
—Chandra Nalaar , "I've never been above throwing the first punch." , "When the whole world is crazy, it's important to find something you can rely on." , "Do you smell something burning?" , "This is why we don't go out in banewasp weather."
—Rannon, Vithian holdout , Getting in was the easy part. Getting out proved to be more difficult. , Neurok spies carry devices that let them look a few moments into the future, giving them an almost insurmountable edge. , "In secrecy is strength. None can oppose one who cannot be found."
—Szadek , It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, "It's so infinite that its flavor text says, , A Vulshok weapon strikes with the fire of the forge that made it. , "One wizard is a suspect. Two wizards are a conspiracy."
—Elvish refugee , "Renata launched a dozen arrows into the minotaur's thick hide, but the monster didn't slow its charge. The fury of Mogis was upon it."
—Luphea of Setessa, *Histories* , "The potential for change lies in all things. Know a thing's nature, know its possibilities, and know it anew."
—Gustha Ebbasdotter, Kjeldoran Royal Mage , "Zendikar has given us the weapons to wage war on the appropriate scale."
—Najiya, leader of the Tajuru , Beyond pain, beyond obsession and wild despair, there lies a place of twisted power only the most tormented souls can reach. , Heads and shoulders above the rest. , Elementals are ideas given form. This one is the idea of "smashitude." , "More than lessons may be gained from the past."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest , For the mind-minded mastermind. , "I'd like to say that it's our pet, but the reverse may be closer to the truth."
—Ixor, initiate of Rhet crop , "We are no longer Nature's children, but her masters . . . ."
—Oath of the Ebon Hand , "None appreciate sun and shallows like those who have seen the depths."
—Lianda of the Stonybrook school , No one can navigate the dank maze of Shadowmoor's rivers better than the cruel and covetous merrows. They use the currents to steal—and to steal away. , The murk of the Wanderbrine concealed unseemly rituals designed to bring out the worst in merrowkind. , When it awoke, the mirrors of the world reflected only darkness. , "Into its maw went the seventh sea, never to be seen again while the world remains."
—Esper fable , The ghostly objects around the kami circled faster and faster, creating a dizzying cyclone of motion. When it opened its eyes, it struck. , "It seems that each time I visit Lord Konda his guards are more on edge, perhaps even more eager for the war to reach them."
—Masako the Humorless , "Heart of Sokenzan, I call to you! Lend me your fire." , A light an army can follow. , "Save me from Maraxus," Starke pleaded, "or condemn me to his wrath. Either way, do not ignore me!" , "Reflect upon your evils lest they reflect upon you."
—Inquisitor Laerin , Her voice was light, her substance music. , Zombies mourn for the living and celebrate those who will soon be given the gift of death. , "A single grain of sand is insignificant, but a sandstorm can reduce pyramids to dust. Stand with your crop. Become the storm."
—Oketra, god of solidarity , "In my years wandering this land I've seen a veritable menagerie of fantastic creatures, but one that has eluded me thus far is the fabled 'easygoing minotaur.'"
—Ko, expedition wizard , Many of those entrusted to Primata Delphine's care tended to express themselves with screams. , After the awakening of the Eldrazi, some vampires took it upon themselves to remind the others where their loyalty should lie. , "The strings were gone, but he still felt the pull of invisible forces tugging at his mind."
—*Beyond the Great Henge* , "Skin is the prison of the blessed and the stronghold of the heretic."
—Argent Etchings, plate 64, passage 17 , Many fields now lie fallow in Gavony, as the oxen have been confiscated to perform other duties. , Driven by their paranoia, kithkin inflict on their foes all the agonies they believe would have been inflicted on them. , He ate them out of house and home and shed and barn and flock and herd. , "Drink deeply, for there is no tomorrow!"
—Anje Falkenrath , Gold coin, battered helmet, broken wrist bone—all have the same value in the eyes of a harpy. , "We thank the souleaters for culling our sick so that the strong may earn their triumphs."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude , Seyden's temperament didn't take well to the puca's magic. Nor did his face. , Chainer dreams of ultimate knowledge. , "We meet again, pyromancer."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance , "We can fight with you or against you. After my day, I'd prefer the former."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , "Finesse is no match for brute force."
—Seton, centaur druid , "Sacrificing mortal dragons to satisfy your immortal hunger ends here."
—Darigaaz, to Rith , "Manners are for mortals." , "Day 31: I finally succeeded in my time reversal experiment! "Day 30: I might have a problem here."
—Journal of the Prime Izmagnus , Nylea appeared amid the howl of a hundred beasts. , "We are armed with light and steel. Who can stand against us?" , "Inner peace is wonderful, and worth striving for. Outer peace is much less important."
—Taelya, Lavabrink pyromage , "Now is the hour. Ours is the duty. For victory and family—charge!" , "Time to show the foe our true mettle." , "The Immortal Sun will bring us true eternal life to replace the everlasting shadow of undeath." , "This is about more than aether or inventions. Tezzeret's schemes must be stopped!"
—Ajani Goldmane , Ghirapur's most celebrated inventors have been immortalized in clockwork. , There are two lives: The life you live before you see a unicorn, and the life you live after. , Ghirapur is a beacon of inspiration, attracting the most brilliant minds on Kaladesh. , "I fight for my daughter, who may not set foot on a battlefield for many years. Remember who you fight for." , "The hour of your redemption is here. . . . Rally to me. . . . rise and strike. Strike at every favorable opportunity. For your homes and hearths, strike!"
—General Douglas MacArthur, to the people of the Philippines , The desecration of their dead makes even the Saprazzans careless. , "The Rakdos know little of technology, but they definitely know how to push buttons."
—Trivaz, Izzet mage , "The results of our ninth inoculation were the same. The specimen was, of course, euthanized before the contagion could spread."
—Vedalken research notes , "Maybe they wanted to be on the winning side for once."
—Matoc, lavamancer , In life, they were a motley crew: farmers, lords, cutpurses, priests. In death, they are united in singular, benevolent purpose. , "At first I simply observed. But I found that without investment in others, life serves no purpose."
—Karn, silver golem , "In desperation, Konda sent warriors to parley with the ogre-magi. No one knows whether they were slaughtered at Shinka or if they even reached its bloodstained walls."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , "If they move, kill them. In fact, kill one now to make sure the other understands." , For hours afterward, all they could see was the grisly silhouette of their master, screaming. , Don't stand in his way, for his way is full of pointy things and fire. , "They believe they're driving us back, but we're leading them to their doom."
—Kethek, furnace stoker , Few entrances lead to where demons and devils lurk. Unfortunately, they occasionally open new ones. , "Our border lands fall under the grip of Heidar's second winter. Go forth and reclaim them for Yavimaya."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order , In theory, the death of the Eldrazi should have stilled the Roil. It did not. , The boundary between real and imaginary is as thin as the page, and just as easily torn. , "The cathars have their swords, the inquisitors their axes. I prefer the 'diplomatic' approach."
—Terhold, archmage of Drunau , "Wonders hide where the trees grow thickest."
—Mul Daya proverb , "Perhaps I should take Mirrodin apart and begin again."
—Memnarch , A fool knows no fear. A hero shows no fear. , "How do I know where aid is needed? Look around you." , One footstep among many is silent. One footstep alone is deafening. , Good at carrying things. Really good at knocking them down. , "For years, the landfolk have emptied their refuse into the waters. It's time to return the favor." , Death greeted the world with a roar of desert air. , "Fall back! You are no match for this."
—Samut , Gerrard studied the globe as Mirri kept watch. Suddenly, his eyes widened. "This is Dominaria!" , It's easier to relocate a village that lies in their path than to turn the bugs aside. , "Everyone starts off making garbage. If you finally make something halfway decent, it'll be the best day of your life."
—Nehra, inventor , In its shadow, everything changed. , Gremlins can change from pest to problem to plague in the span of a moment. , The Mirari's echoes rang in the scouts' minds long after they had returned from the Krosan Forest. , Krosan druids do not fear death, for they know that nature will only prosper from their passing. , For hydras, most problems can be solved with the addition of a few extra heads. , Bantians believe those who are born into the highest caste and live a life of discipline and virtue can ascend to become angels. , A soldier's faith is magic strong enough to protect against any blade. , Verick held his breath. Breathing wouldn't reveal his position, but it would force him to smell the goblins. , "All that concerns me is the vampires' sense of smell and those freezing Nephalian nights." , "Let go of all that harms you. Cast your burdens into the darkness, and build for the faithful a house of light."
—*Song of All*, canto 1008 , To those in tune with the Firemind, there is no difference between knowledge and flame. , "Walk now in my light. When the rest of the world closes its eyes, you will still see."
—Iona , No more shall the righteous cower before evil. , Beneath the gaze of angels, only the righteous may stand without fear. , "Countermagic is a simple process of breaking matter into its elementary particles." , When enough artifacts lie too long in the same place, their magical radiation weakens reality, opening rifts of unpredictable destructive power. , The greatest challenge isn't the stifling heat but the crushing weight of those who failed before. , "Fear of fire is a sensible instinct. If I were you, I'd be terrified." , "Thunder broke the brittle silence over the Araba. A surge of raw energy lifted the soldier's body into the air and briefly, in the heart of the flash, he saw the face of a god."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , She enraptures all, encompasses all, endures all. , The hatchlings will fill the jungles of Murasa in a glittering tide. , "That cruel being brings shame to all her fellow Dwarves and misery to all the land. She is Sengir's daughter in spirit if not in blood."
—Reveka, Wizard Savant , The blessing is not the strength itself, but the knowledge of how to use it. , Accustomed to battling before an audience in the arena, Iroas's champions know how to put on a good show. , When you feel a rumble in the ground, hold perfectly still. One sound will bring the hellion. , "Why would someone have built ... wait, never mind. Send it to the front lines!"
—Commander Grozdan , "We need to block the exits from the plaza! What's big, heavy, and available?"
—Gideon Jura , As the rebellion spread, renegade ingenuity outpaced the Consulate's greatest fears. , The best weapon is the one at hand. , They warn the army of danger as they squawk past in swift retreat. , Generations of genetic weeding have given rise to the deviously cowardly Ironclaw clan. , The good news is it's vegetarian. The bad news is it just doesn't like you. , "The only way to get Mercadians to fight on the front lines is to give them really long weapons."
—Gerrard , The Iron League prides itself on its metal-shaping techniques. , The maiden is a jealous lover. , The myr are like rusted metal: gleaming purpose hidden by a thin disguise of debris. , "'I'll show you how to handle the treefolk!' the giant bragged, and he strode off into the forest. Two days later he returned, his face masked in sap and a nest behind his ear. None dared ask who won."
—Azeworai, "The Treeling" , "Alone, it's a fortification. At the head of its troops, it's a battering ram."
—Skerk Hobnett, wilderness guide , "Put down your bows, you fools! Arrows only make it angry!"
—Callia, Hyrax Tower scout , "Please don't feed the beetles."
—Promenade warning sign , Forged by a thousand flames. , "We've been through a lot together." , "The fury in the lion's eye;
the patience in the hippo's yawn;
the pride within the griffin's cry
are one within the iron tusk's stride."
—"Iron Tusk," Femeref song , "Impurities must be pounded out." , The blast ignores the cage of metal but devours the flesh inside. , Where fickle form meets lasting loyalty. , The baloth's instincts boiled, its muscles pulled taut, and its razor-spines bristled, as it turned to face—a runt meepling. , To some satyrs, only blasphemy is sacred. , The hound sniffed the air and let slip a low growl. General Takeno looked down at the faithful Isamaru and calmed him with a touch. "Alert the guard. The kami are coming." , "I do not care if he claims no allegiance in this war. Find him, Takeno."
—Lord Konda , "Through me, the Great Teacher's voice will rattle this world." , "Here fell Ishi-Ishi, King of the Flaming Pebbles, Scourge of the Mountain Kami, Lover of Goats. May his shell never burn."
—Cave inscription , Danish Island, Scandinavia , The Isle of Wak-Wak, home to a tribe of winged folk, is named for a peculiar fruit that grows there. The fruit looks like a woman's head, and when ripe speaks the word "Wak." , The more deadly the lake monster, the shorter the tale. , Threefold were his crimes, doubled were his pleas, singular was his fate. , Serra's blessing lies strongest upon Sursi, where her holy chapels are untouched even as the Cabal encroaches. , "Attrition is the answer. Starve them, and let their despair be their undoing."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , When properly aligned, hedrons become powerful tools of binding. , "I serve only justice. But through that duty, I serve all of Ravnica." , Your pleas for death shall go unheard. , "Give me . . . some skin." , It is said that the feathers of a crane are clouds, plucked and sewn together by the hands of the kami. , Blessed by a thousand prayers. , The elite guard of the Mesa High Priests, the Ivory Guardians, were created to protect the innocent and faithful. Some say their actions are above the law. , Made from its wearer's hopes, the mask ensures that those hopes will be fulfilled. , Valuing scholarship above all else, the inhabitants of the Ivory Tower reward those who sacrifice power for knowledge. , Abzan soldiers march to war confident that their Houses march with them. , Her ivy locks are a remnant of the wooded wilds now lost to Ravnica forever. , For safety reasons, the keeping of houseplants within Ikoria's sanctuaries is heavily discouraged. , "Skyknight gear? Well, I have drake-skin gauntlets, supple and fireproof. Or a ceratok chestplate that'll stop a crossbow bolt." , Jace awoke to the certainty that he was lost. , The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Ixalli is the Verdant Sun, who fosters growth in all things. , "Reality has exiled me. I am no longer bound by its laws." , "Some dreams should not come to be." , He ensures not only whether but also when and where the lightning strikes twice. , It holds within it an unsolvable riddle. A creative answer yields an invitation to the guild. , Every laboratory buzzes with new experiments, each a piece of Ral's ambitious project. , "Remember to discharge your locket every seven hours. Unless you prefer the spontaneous aether overload, of course."
—Daxiver, Izzet electromancer , The Izzet signet is redesigned often, each time becoming closer to a vanity portrait of Niv-Mizzet. , "Common soldiers can't understand what a sidar knows: the enemy can be a resource."
—Sidar Jabari , "This is a sacred duty. Master Beleren's trust has bought an eternity of my loyalty." , "I had hoped for more from you, Jace. But I expected as much."
—Nicol Bolas , "You should try to clear your mind of idle thoughts. And if you can't, I will." , "Brute force can sometimes kick down a locked door, but knowledge is a skeleton key." , In the abstract memories of the Iquati, Jace found interesting ideas to improve upon. , "Pardon me if I seem distracted. Part of me is reconnoitering the Tenth District." , "The Eternals can recognize faces. They just think I look like a blue minotaur." , "For all our lofty talk of keeping watch, we had no idea what we were getting into."
—Jace Beleren , "Just a collage of images: cryptoliths, the sea, a tangle of shipwrecks." , "We drove the Sun Empire out of the forest long ago, and we will not let them return." , His triumph was not in outsmarting Bolas's plan, but in understanding why ultimate power is self-defeating. , undefined , "Let the gray-hairs keep their ravens and drakes. My familiar will be a reflection of me: bloodthirsty, with a predator's instinct."
—Taivang, barbarian warlord , There's little more demeaning than getting your butt kicked by a bunch of bunnies. , The first morning after acquiring her familiar, the wizard awoke with fleabites and mange. , "My sword is at your service, as are my scissors, corkscrew, and bottle opener." , Abandoning his sword to return to the lush forest of Pendelhaven, Jacques le Vert devoted his life to protecting the creatures of his homeland. , Nature's arms encircle all who are willing to draw close. , On Murasa, even the trees grow trees. , "Sisora wore this, who defeated the tyrant of Azcanta, and before her Natena of Vuhana's band. May it bring you their strength." , "A blade is not fully forged until it is given." , "Calm down everyone; it's nothing we haven't seen before."
—Sisay , The River Heralds believe that jade gives weight to their magic. , Before the Kami War, the shishi were symbolic guardians, protecting the shrines where they stood. But after the kami turned on the material world, shishi began pouncing from their perches to attack would-be supplicants. , "It took magic to extract one of the stones and five people to carry it."
—Tolarian research notes , "We are one with the wild things. Life blooms from our fingertips and nature responds to our summons."
—Jade creed , "The paradox of jade statues is that their victims never really expect attack, but they are never completely surprised either."
—Kabel, Tolarian archivist , The pungent smell of roasting flesh made both mages realize they'd rather break for dinner than fight. , Few puppets are so willing. , "You know how to tell a sapling explorer from an old hardhead? See which one mistakes a swarm of jagwasps for the setting sun."
—Chadir the Navigator , "You can become anything if I just put my mind to it." , Most books simply deliver knowledge. This one expects some in return. , The lion blinked
—Femeref expression meaning "situation avoided" , Your heart's desire is found within.
—Saddlebag inscription , "We always look upon our first creations as masterpieces, no matter how awful they are."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , Janjeet Observatory is open to the public, but access to the adjoining laboratories is restricted. , "The Izzet are searching for something. Discern what or die trying." , Light's champion in the stronghold of darkness. , "Peace must prevail, even if the wicked must die." , "Ah, skull of shrew—a very potent substance. In powdered form, it gives thrice the zing of noggle hoof pulp."
—Boghald, Barrenton medic , When giants find their mountain homes infested, they have a whole range of solutions. , "We have visitors? Well, it'd be rude not to give them a traditional Keral Keep welcome." , Centuries ago, a pyromancer's spark ignited a fiery conflagration. , A true scribe devotes an entire lifetime to the creation of a single volume, a masterpiece as unique as its maker. , "As my kha, he is the source of my inspiration. As my brother, he is the embodiment of my aspirations."
—Ajani Goldmane , Mightiest of the cat warriors, Jedit Ojanen forsook the forests of his tribe and took service with the Robaran Mercenaries, rising through their ranks to lead them in the battle for Efrava. , The cat warriors recognized this Jedit's face, but not his fierce loyalty to Efrava. , After Efrava was destroyed, the cat warriors scattered across Dominaria. Those who followed Jedit's example were strong enough to survive the ravages of apocalypse. , Mklthd had always hated crowds . . . and they had always hated him. , Few among the Azorius have ever spoken with the sphinxes, but all have felt their influence. , Wounded soldiers looked up, grateful for her appearance. But she passed over them, her eyes firmly on their foe. , Once, the order of the Closed Fist reached throughout the Kb'Briann Highlands. Now, Jerrard alone remains to uphold their standard. , Discipline to persevere, insight to discover. , "The one who conquers the mind is greater than the one who conquers the world." , Discipline is the first pillar of the Jeskai Way. Each member of the clan trains in a weapon, perfecting its use over a lifetime. , They range from Sage-Eye Stronghold to the farthest reaches of Tarkir. , "Gather your strength. Prepare yourself."
—Jeska, to Radha , "My brother and I both come from Balthor's forge. Kamahl has a temper of fire. I have a temper of steel." , "Know your foes' strengths as well as their weaknesses."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist , "¡Yo quiero Kormus Bell!" , The bolt struck with a flash, and there was a terrible sound, as of glass shattering, but the creature was unharmed. , "I've seen my fare share of baubles, minister. Whatever ostentatious bit of glitter you have there won't convince me to ... Oh my."
—-Emperor Ayrelion , As he knows all the world completely, the world refuses him harm. , "You have two choices: heed my advice now or need my healing later." , The Jhessian navy makes successful raids on Valeron's coastal towns thanks to their spies planted during peacetime. , She stands ready, always watchful, knowing that weeks of peace and serenity can be overturned by a single distant sail. , "Where's the fun in an escape if it's not at least a little daring?" , "You could say it was my pet project."
—Jhoira , It entertained Jhoira to craft a kit that could bring her the tools. , As she took the wheel of the *Weatherlight* for the first time in a millennium, Jhoira knew she'd been right to restore the ship. Anything was possible now. , War-trained jhovalls eat twice their weight in war-trained soldiers daily. , Don't be fooled by the riders' fluid grace—it takes years of practice to ride these beasts. , "You're not my Hanna!"
—Gerrard, to Yawgmoth , "It is not a goal, but a process—the process of creating the perfect Phyrexia." , "What wizards upset, the land soon rights."
—Gemma, Willow Priestess , "Here." , "Strength is what keeps us alive. Compassion is what keeps us human." , "Chronicles across the ages describe Jodah. They likely refer not to one mage, but to a family or an arcane title."
—Arkol, Argivian scholar , "Just wait till I get my Krark-Clan Ironworks, Genesis Chamber, and Grinding Station. Oh yeah, and a second Myr Retriever." , "To bring her down we must be on all sides at once—leave one avenue open and we'll all be dead."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , A talented apprentice makes all things. The master makes all things possible. , "We are the shield that never breaks, the bough that never burns, the song that can never be silenced." , "By my power, werewolves shall become the wolfir, our allies in combat against darkness."
—Avacyn's Cursemute Decree , Expeditionary houses are notorious for their rivalries. But when adventurers meet in the wilderness, the instinct for mutual survival outweighs petty grudges. , "I was shocked when I first saw the aftermath of the Yavimaya Valley disaster. The raging waters had swept away trees, bridges, and even houses. My healers had much work to do."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , "I need no army. I have Jamuraa." , "Humans bring nothing but suffering and deceit. They are not welcome in my forest." , "What need have I for cavalry when I can have horse and rider both in one?"
—Jolrael , "War destroys; nature renews."
—Jolrael, empress of beasts , "There's nothing like a sudden shock to clarify one's thoughts."
—Pashad ibn Asim, Suq'Ata trader , "Before the battle, I heard them take an oath near the ruins of Sea Gate. I hope they inspire others to keep watch." , Adventuring bards recite *Chanter's Epics*, never-ending tales that keep their comrades' minds alert to danger. , "A single tree does not a forest make. We are stronger when we stand together."
—Numa, Joraga chieftain , "If you only follow where the paths lead, you merely go where others have gone before you." , "Some relic hunters have given up exploring and gone to fight the Eldrazi. But I know our work is more important than ever. The secrets we uncover could lead to the world's salvation." , "As long as my hand holds a blade, there's hope for a pure Mirrodin once again." , "From the clouds, you can see as far as the distant horizon. It's a reminder of the infinite possibilities of everyday life."
—Noboru, master kitemaker , "As my hands touched it, I realized that I had not found it—it had been leading me here." , undefined , "Life is a tournament that rewards the bold."
—Syr Layne, knight of Embereth , "Don't let it fool you. Many of us got our first scars from Syr Nobody."
—Syr Layne, knight of Embereth , "Joven, you're almost as good a thief as I. But Eron hates you even more."
—Chandler , "If that thief Joven ever shows his head around here again, make sure he leaves without it."
—Eron the Relentless , "Today, for a lark, let's visit the plains. I'm sure we'll find something to entertain us." , "I have been gifted by the kami with long life. So far, they have not seen fit to withdraw their gift. There may yet be a way to stop the killing without more blood, human or kami, being spilled."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf , chitty-chitty-BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG BANG! , The competition is but one aspect of the spectacle. , She was born unable to walk. Through the *eludha*, she was able to fly. , Though the currents of the Lanes shift every year, the merrow never lose track of where they are or where they are going. , "It misses nothing and it has no sense of humor."
—Barvisa, courtroom scribe , At the end of the show, she stands alone on a stage brilliant with blood. , The light of the rising star empowers the champions of tomorrow. , Many a besieged city has surrendered upon hearing the distinctive rumble of the juggernaut. , "If my heart had a lid, I would lift it and show you my joy."
—From Suq'Ata wedding ceremony , Dosan's monks, deep in spiritual thought, could walk through the thickest of forests without leaving a mark, even the leaves beneath their feet unaffected by their passing. , "Humanity has always envied the power of flight. So we took it."
—Scytha, aeromage , "Of your blood I will make my mead, an offering to the thirsty jungle." , Jund pulses with raw energy, waiting for shamans to shape it into useful form. , The knights were halfway through their precombat rites before they realized the foul brute meant to start without them. , The sky is the dragon's throne, the seat from which it issues its fiery decrees. , Within silent clearings guarded by living palisades, the natural world guards its most precious secrets. , "We fought so long to hide this place. Let us be first to learn its wonders!" , "You cannot kill it, not for long. It ripens where the ground is soaked with the blood of the slaughtered."
—Atiuru, priest of the Verdant Sun , "There is no power too great to be used in the defense of our ancestral lands." , The lion's only loyalty is to its hunger. , On Naya, ambition and treachery are scarce, hunted nearly to extinction by the awe owed to terrestrial gods. , "You eat plants; I eat plants. You eat beasts; I eat you."
—Drulvurg, troll king , She is adept at navigating the stadium's ever-changing landscape. , Weavers' webs wall off swaths of territory more effectively than any portcullis made of iron. , Broad as a baobab—and about as smart. , "In these troubled times, we alone carry the hope of reconciliation between Elf and Human."
—Jaeuhl Carthalion, Juniper Order advocate , "The filthy towns of Kjeldor are no place for anyone to live. Fyndhorn is our home now."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order , To protect the alliance between Kjeldor and Yavimaya, they trained in the ways of both. , Garbage in, treasure out. , "Hey, wait! That's my boot!"
—Darijo, Ivy Street ruffian , "Those who can't survive are of no consequence."
—Tsabo Tavoc , "It's time to put the 'die' in 'diameter!'"
—Flaky the Irrational , "Those who show no mercy to the weak deserve no mercy from the strong."
—Firemane Kavrova , With the new guildmaster's innovations, arresters can arrive on the scene moments before a crime is committed. , "There's nothing to worry about." , Gloomwidow venom is particularly virulent during the spider's first years, when it does most of its hunting near the forest floor. , "Expect my visit when the darkness comes. The night I think is best for hiding all."
—Ouallada , undefined , "Yeah, they've got a lot of meat. The only downside to eating 'em is that you often find human bones and body parts inside."
—Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad , "The best expedition would be an entire team of me." , Though solitary by nature, the sphinxes did not hesitate to join in the fight against the Eldrazi. , "I'll have my revenge if I have to call on every force from above and below." , Ondu moas make wildly uncomfortable mounts, but for determined warriors, their speed is enough to make up for it. , undefined , "Many great warriors died in the first days of the war, as the spirits of their weaponry turned against them with terrifying rage."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , "The only constant in life is the unknown." , "If the curse does not strike you dead, question your soul."
—Kaervek , "The end justifies the means. What do I care if I rule over the dead rather than over the living? The dead ask fewer questions."
—Kaervek , The pulsing heat of the midday Sun burns in the Lion's eye.
—Stone inscription, source unknown , "Rats and jackals feast in his swath, but even they will not walk with him."
—Mangara , "Defy me and I will burn the flesh from your bones. Betray me and I will steal the breath from your lungs." , The mist was thick, cloying, and constricting. Shiro fought his way to fresh air only to look back and see his comrades fallen on the battlefield behind him. , When it's finished, all that's left of you is a ripple on a still pond. , Its mood changes with the weather, and vice versa. , "Time and again, I have demonstrated my skills as a healer. Why, then, are you so ill at ease?" , Each of Malakir's great families boasts a contingent of nulls appropriate to its rank in society. , "Kalitas may have returned to mindless servitude beneath the Eldrazi, but we say never again."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief , Once broken, who knows what worlds might grow from its shards? , "Do not fire upon it—it is bad luck. And a waste of arrows."
—Alera Benath, Kalonian ranger , Even baloths fear its feeding time. , "And all this time I thought *we* were tracking *it*."
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker , "My mind has changed. My strength has not." , In times when freedom seems lost, great souls arise to reclaim it. , Centuries ago, a barbarian laid his rage to rest. , As Krosa unleashed the peace in Kamahl, he unleashed the fury in Krosa. , He has "friends" in places both high and low, and all seem to owe him favors. , "Duty and law are the foundation on which civilization stands. They must not fall, for when they do, they take everything with them."
—Lord Konda , "Across the rift of battle, a bridge of gossamer. And for one moment, it holds."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet , "I can hear the shamans chanting in the hills. They say their magic will protect us from the kami, that our gold has bought our safety. But no one sleeps soundly tonight."
—Scroll fragment from the ruins of Reito , "There was a wall here. Now it is dust. A tower rose here. Now it is fallen. An army fought here. Now it is dead. A spirit was here. It is all that remains."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet , It remembered all the shadows lantern-cast upon its paper wings, and sometimes those silhouettes played across its shape again, acting out silent tragedies. , "He's a lot like me, that masterless little kami . . . unimpressed by grandeur and never at a loss for a trick."
—Toshiro Umezawa , "Don't worry, Jiro. The kami would never attack us this close to home . . . . Jiro?"
—Hoto, temple guardian, last words , In ancient times, precepts of kami law were inscribed onto bridges as a gesture of respect. During the war, humans regarded them as warnings of where not to travel. , "For a moment, Reito's defenders regrouped. Then wailing kami reappeared to send them scattering like flocks of frightened birds."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , Its form reflected humanity as it stood during the Kami War: disjointed, confused, and incomplete. , "It's a truly disconcerting sight to see their shadows cast upon the deck."
—Captain Triff , "Death tried to uncrown me. But now I return, king of a greater realm." , "To make a prairie it takes a clover and one bee,/ One clover, and a bee,/ And revery."
—Emily Dickinson , "The wilds are a garden tended by divine hands." , The harvest god's cornucopia contains the fruits of the fields, the forest, and beyond. , "Only those who give the dragons the respect they deserve may bear our title." , From rebellion against the Akoum Skyclave to fighting the Eldrazi titans, the dragon-riding Kargan tribes have never missed an opportunity to defy the odds. , "I was made for this!" , Aboard her ship, the *Dragon's Smile*, Kari follows no one's rules but her own. , "Does Teysa think me blind to her scheming? Ambition runs in our family." , "I can't protect everyone here. But those I can, I will."
—Karn , Centuries ago, a quest to harness time became a spiral into chaos. , "Be like the meerkat, my daughters: ever vigilant, true to your own, and wary of strangers."
—Nabil Alamat, Suq'Ata merchant , "They aren't the brightest or the quickest of giants. For that matter, the same holds true if you compare them to rocks."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "Don't worry, they won't bite. They much prefer setting people on fire."
—Jaya Ballard, to Chandra , The strider's long, loping gait is an adaptation that allows it to move quickly in deep snow. , "They're not easily trained. Fortunately, they already know how to kill."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain , "What's that smell?"
—Perena Deepcutter, Dwarven Armorer , "Our revered ancestor Seshiro gave us wisdom greater than poison and fangs." , The orochi and the monks had always had an unspoken agreement: live and let live. But when the kami began raging, some warrior youths began questioning that agreement. , Popular indeed is the tale of how Kasimir was once a Holy man who renounced his order to take up the sword. But this tale is no more likely than any other. , "Hop away now, little Eternal. Go eat some flies."
—Kasmina , Wind will win, whatever we wish. , "Before the war, we prayed to Kataki to sharpen our swords and harden our armor. Without his blessing our weapons are all but useless against the kami hordes."
—Kenzo the Hardhearted , "They weren't part of my plan, but Gaea insisted."
—Urza , The kavu might be above you
—Llanowar expression meaning "keep an open mind" , As a dark rain of Phyrexians fell from the sky, fountains of kavu erupted from the ground. , To the kavu, all Phyrexians are merely crunchy snacks. , Kavu emerged all across Dominaria, but the first and the strongest came from Yavimaya. , In a withered world, the scent of healthy prey is enough to drive a predator to frenzy. , Few ever see this particular breed of kavu, which hides in forests of its own making. , The kavu evolved for centuries deep inside Dominaria, and some can draw from its strength. , The Eternals found some sparks to be quite slippery. , Teysa convened the meeting of the Obzedat. Kaya ended it. , Kaysa speaks as the elder druid, but Yavimaya recognizes only one voice: its own. , "If you hire a sell-sword, you'd better watch your back. Hire me, and I'll watch it for you." , undefined , "The scythe-like forelegs are crucial for its survival, because it tastes really good and every inhabitant of Murasa knows it."
—Arhana, Kazandu trapfinder , Elves revere cycles of renewal, but they prefer cycles that don't involve their homes getting smashed. , "What sort of life is that, huddling in the familiar and safe? No thanks. Put me right in the center of the action." , undefined , Travelers are advised to bring extra swords, preferably shiny ones. , Warning to those who scale the cliffs without paying tribute: It's a long way down. , On expeditions, minotaurs are worth their weight in gold. Fortunately for their paymasters, most minotaurs don't know how much they weigh. , Bloated with venom, it crawls Grixis looking for victims to ooze onto. , When the smell of passing thoughts piques its hunger, its maw becomes primed with acid and a taste for brains. , Kediss loves molten metal ,searing flames, and head scratches. , "I have no need of a map. The continent itself guides my way." , "If it has wings, shoot it. If it doesn't, shoot it anyway." , "Fear is a rational response, but waiting won't make it any easier. Just jump!" , Some souls are too damaged to be of use to the Orzhov. , Her cold wail echoes in the alleys and under-eaves, finding the unfortunate and turning their blood to ice. , As it spins, dead voices shriek in an ever-increasing cacophony, rending the mind asunder. , Crovax sensed that Mirri wasn't ready for the curse taking hold of her. Weeping in his heart, he fled. , Through the *eludha*, bonders share the powerful abilities of their chosen companions. , "Only the lion knows more stories than I do."
—Chulane, Teller of Tales , For the right price, he'll unlock your path to the throne. , Wanted: Thick-skinned goblin for guarding mean ol' Kookus. Must like fires. Must heal quickly. , He watches over the valley where Progenitus sleeps, culling signs from its steaming breaths. , "It sees all, but it reveals what it sees only to a chosen few."
—Taigam, Ojutai master , "You cannot fight the storm." , This is not a subliminal message. , And then the Archangel Anthius spoke to them, saying, "Fear shall be vanquished by the Sword of Faith." , "Coppercoats think they understand duty and loyalty, but they can't begin to fathom the depths of my bond." , "I see their moral dilemmas. I see their raw courage. I see their self-sacrifice. I see our victory." , In his final moments, Kefnet reached into the minds of those around him, desperate for logic within the consuming chaos. , "The worthy shall cultivate a nimble mind to perceive the glorious wonders that await them."
—Monument inscription , The pull of the tide star holds eternal sway. , "Fields can be replanted. Settlements can be rebuilt. Burn it all."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer , They fight beyond thought, beyond fear, and beyond mercy. , "If there isn't enough of Jamuraa left to stand on, I will still claim it for Keld."
—Latulla, Keldon overseer , Keldon raiders' spoils are limited to what their colos can carry. No matter the value, the rest goes up in smoke. , Keldons divide all their spoils into two groups: trophies and catapult ammunition. , "The Mountain gave us the Flame to Kradak to light the furnaces of his people's hearts. The wanderers became Keldons, and he the first warlord."
—"The Flame of Keld" , What if they threw a war, and *everybody* came? , She chooses her riders carefully and bears them to glory in battle after battle. , The nesting bats of Kelinore sleep soundly while the sun passes, nestled among their grisly collections. , "Aim for an eye. Better they never see you." , "Rangers not trained by the Elves just aren't the same."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield , "I am not Raksha. I never will be. But I refuse to be the kha who watched her pride be torn asunder." , The squabble over succession was quickly replaced by the struggle to survive. , "We're now to dispense aid to any Mirran we see battling anything . . . 'strange.' Regent's orders."
—Ranya, skyhunter captain , "The bonds of bushido will draw the dishonored back someday, and I will be there waiting." , "You're not setting foot in here. Not on our watch!" , "Perfection is elusive. Let us try again." , "Loss has no meaning here. You cannot take from those who have nothing." , "They put bars on these noble beasts and then wonder why werewolves target our towns." , In the quiet of the Somberwald, new horrors stir. , Discontent is a powerful weapon in the hands of a mob. , undefined , Its silk is highly prized, but then again, so is your life. , "Don't be afraid when you hear the wolves howl. Be afraid when you don't hear them at all."
—Saint Trogen, the Slayer , When a werewolf changes for the first time, that first howl is said to echo through the wilds till moonset. , "The pen is mightier than the crown." , The dark of night never truly falls on Ketria, where abundant crystals bathe the land in their glow. , Nowhere on Ikoria are monsters more integral to the landscape than Ketria, where the river itself will stand up and roar. , "This one opens the grate outside Zelzo Base. This one is for Ismeri Library. This one is for an invisible door . . . No, I've said too much." , It would be unfortunate if the key fell into the wrong hands. , undefined , A fragment of ancient power lost in the heart of Ora Ondar. , "In ages past, bargains were struck and promises were made. Now we must collect on our debt. Begin the hymns."
—Moruul, Khalni druid , "We do not swerve."
—Tah-crop charioteer motto , For many years, servant mummies toiled in the mines to extract lazotep. The emergence of the Eternals revealed the sacred substance's true purpose. , "There is no tomorrow, so hold nothing back." , "They're still here?! The cockroach may have finally met its match."
—Teferi , It stares through the empty, pain-twisted faces of those it has drained. , Its hunting instincts have long since rotted away. Its hunger, however, remains. , "A wanderer has told me of an assassin in the Takenuma Swamp who uses her dark arts to animate her enemies' shadows against them. A wild tale, but it explains much."
—Diary of Azusa , "Me? No, I'm not going to kill you. I won't even lay a finger on you. I promise."
—Kiku, Night's Flower , Getting "Gotcha'ed" again and again. , The communal mind produces a savage strategy, yet no one could predict that this vicious crossbreed would unravel the secret of steel. , "Take the bridge, men! Victory! Victory is ou— Retreat! RETREAT!" , Hunger is like the sea: deep, endless, and unforgiving. , A casual glance into a dark corner may be your last. , "I come looking for demons and I find a plane full of angels. I hate angels."
—Liliana Vess , Mardu archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They never miss their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away. , Dressed to kill. , Success is largely a matter of knowing which lever to pull. , It traps an explosion within its stony skin. , If it possesses an ability to understand and appreciate life, it has never shown it. , In the forest villages of Kessig, parents feed their children wormwood and other bitter herbs, hoping to make them less palatable to things that roam the night. , Hope of deliverance is scorched by the fire of futility. , The minotaur stared at the Eternal bearing down on him—the embodiment of deadly skill he had aspired to become. , "Start knockin' heads, boys, and don't stop 'til the ragamuffyn sings!" , "What's wrong, dear? Nothing a 44-to-22 bronze spur gear and reducer pairing couldn't fix, I bet." , undefined , For goblins, quantity is quality. , Few things are truly "lost" at sea. , In the end, the lights fade, the land withers, and only the dead and vile remain. , "Just relax—I brought in a substitute." , If you find yourself and a friend being chased by a king cheetah, you have but one chance: Trip your friend.
—Suq'Ata wisdom , "I'm allergic to shellfish—not only did it kill my entire village, it also gave me this nasty rash."
—Olivia, fisher , It's tastiest when served with the fish it stole. , "Glorious, to walk again across the savannah with my beloved."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , "Debt and death sound so similar, and thrulls are so hard of hearing. Mistakes are inevitable."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate , Fear is as effective a weapon as the blade. , "We made tempestuous winds obedient to Solomon . . . And many of the devils We also made obedient to him."
—The Qur'an, 21:81 , The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Kinjalli is the Wakening Sun, who created humans from clay and baked them in the sun's warmth. , "There are moments when I feel I could fly like the sunwing. Far away I would soar, but always a golden gale pushes me back."
—Huatli , Even when a giant's tantrum turns the sky into a chaotic gale, the path of the balloonist never falters. , Ambidexterity is common among kithkin. The thoughtweft links the minds of the left- and right-handed, giving each the knack of the other. , "If a boggart even dares breathe near one of my kin, I'll know. And I'll not be happy." , The suspicious kithkin of Kinscaer patrol the skies, their eyes attuned to the shapes of outsiders. , The passing years add new rings to the tree's trunk, bolstering the spirits that dwell within. , "The amber of the tree and the blood of my veins are the same." , "When your enemy flees, send the sea to pursue them."
—Kiora , "She may call herself Kiora but I believe she is Thassa, the embodiment of the sea and empress of the depths." , Each spell is an intricate tapestry, and Kira is the great unraveler. , It puts the "fur" in "fury." , "Make people wait for what they want, and you have power over them. This is as true for merchants and militia as it is for cooks and couples."
—Gwendlyn Di Corci , "I'd sooner lock lips with a viper. At least I might walk away from *that*."
—Elvish scout , Once a year, Akrasa holds a joust that draws knights and their leotaus from every nation on Bant. The prize is an Akrasan sigil, but the true reward is the angel's kiss. , Accept one favor from an ouphe, and you're doomed to accept another. , Kitesailing is a way of life—and without practice, the end of it. , Carving lines through the sky, kite sailors map trails for the pilgrims below to follow. , Too flashy to ignore. Too fast to catch. , "Why perch in the crow's nest when I can fly like the crows?" , "The wind in one's hair, the sun on one's back, the joy of open skies . . . the next generation of kor must know this kind of peace." , "To my sword I owe my glory, but to my shield I owe my life."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge , The kith dance their elaborate reels not merely to celebrate the events of their lives but to form an unbreakable bond of loyalty with their kin, a bond stronger than the fear of death itself. , Sometimes a curious giant singles out a "little one" to follow for a few days, never realizing the effect it will have on the little one's life. , Her ears are open to even the softest voice. , The empathetic nature of the thoughtweft allows kithkin healers to treat the cause of an illness rather than fight its symptoms. , Eidren's hunts are dangerous affairs. All dread the inevitable recounting of those who died while flushing out his prey. , If even the slightest hint of panic enters the thoughtweft, bakers, potters, and even medics drop their spoons and salves to take up arms. , The nova glyph is a potent symbol. A shield embossed with it can resist the force of even the most determined giant. , The more his flock fears, the more power he wields. , Those kitsune trained in the blade preferred to fight with a blade-catching jitte in the off hand, buying them just enough time to deliver the first deadly cut. , "He kept generations whole before the Kami War, and now he turns his century of wisdom to healing the latest casualties."
—Eight-and-a-Half-Tails , She who once led prayers honoring the kami adapted to use her influence to stay them. , "Know your history. The lessons of the past will shield you in times of doubt." , "Who am I to judge who is deserving and who is not? That is a question for lords, not healers." , The wake of his passage shoved aside the influence of the kami. , "They shall kill those whom once they loved."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , The winged helms of the guard are put on for pageants—but taken off for war. , "We willingly trade with Kjeldor, but the peace we build must come from both our lands."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain , "Two of my Warriors found that the creature was dangerous not only in combat, but also in simple proximity."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , The gargoyles were taken from the walls of flooded Kjeldoran cities and brought upland to guard the outposts of New Argive. , "Those who do not ride the wind on Aesthir still command loyalty and respect."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight , "I listen to people. He sniffs the wind. And we both sense something big coming. Something very big." , "There's nothing I like better than watching a street full of soldiers kicking down the doors of the guilty and the impure."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald , Upon the frozen tundra stand the Kjeldoran Royal Guard, pikes raised, with the king's oath upon their lips. , "If we do our duty and uphold our honor, Kjeldor shall stand for a thousand years."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight , "My Aesthir is my most trusted ally. We fight as one and live as one, and we will die as one."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight , King Darien's breath crystallized and fell to the frozen battlefield, but its command carried true to all soldiers of New Argive. , "Give me a thousand such Warriors and I could change the world."
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald , The god of destiny grants her followers vision deeper than sight. , Most of the Knacksaw clique's skills were hewn from the minds of others. , The strength of Bant's caste system is the unfailing loyalty of its meekest members. , Knights are quick to pledge their loyalty and even quicker to charge into battle. , "If you think you are brave enough to walk the path of honor, follow me into the dragon's den." , Kings don't make knights. Actions do. , Flash like daybreak to the fray.
—Motto of the Knights of Dawn , "Challenge me with your strongest. I will paint my sword with their blood." , "I will uphold the law, and no manner of foe will stop me." , A light to pierce the shadows. , "Your laws, like your bones, were made to be broken." , A shadow to swallow the light. , "By tradition, we don't speak for two days after battle. If our deeds won't speak for themselves, what else could be said?" , "I embrace all of Alara, Grixis as much as Bant. Let my former home call me traitor. I do this not for accolades, but because it is right." , The mage-smiths of New Benalia have perfected the art of blending fine steel and enchanted glass into weapons that are both beautiful and deadly. Only elite knights are entrusted with these martial works of art. , He can calculate interest to six decimal places even in the midst of a deadly duel. , The helmet reveals no eyes to witness your penance, no mouth to offer absolution. , "Kjeldorans should rule supreme, and to the rest, death!"
—Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald , That's what it's all about. , "What good is loyalty to the crown if we are not also in service to those less fortunate? I fight for all of us." , "Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the garlic press." , "Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the gravy boat." , "Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the juicer." , "Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the melon baller." , "Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the olive forks." , "Whew. For a minute, I thought I'd forgotten the tea cozy." , Fear the mists, for they are armed. , "To be a knight, Gideon, is to be the shield for the meek against the cruel." , "Knowledge of Bant's landscape and ruins is a weapon that the invaders can't comprehend."
—Elspeth Tirel , The Order of the Skyward Eye does the bidding of an evil force, unwittingly stirring fear and mistrust across Bant in accordance with his plans. , "My whisper becomes a thousand roars." , "Horse? Who needs a horse?" , Both guide and guard on open plain. , His armor is lightweight titanium alloy, but his will is iron. , "By hoof, wing, or paw. For the realm!"
—Syr Gwyn, Hero of Ashvale , "Hail to the true queen! Long may she reign!" , "With a great cry, the goblin host broke and ran as the first wave of knights penetrated its ranks."
—Tivadar of Thorn, History of the Goblin Wars , "As long as my faith persists, so shall I." , "We lost respect after the battle for Barbu Rooftop. Send the troops to mingle respectfully with the citizens."
—Commander Yaszen of Boros , It woke to find a vast world in need of a master. , Witches tempted by the power of flame gathered to study in the ruins of Spinerock Knoll. , The elves of Naya were the last to acknowledge the massive shift of mana in their world. , "He is part of a new breed of guardian, one who embraces the best of both his world and ours."
—Mayael the Anima , "Information is a powerful weapon."
—Cymede, queen of Akros , Each bone honors its owner's best pranks. , "Joining this army is easy, boy. Just survive your first battle." , "One for all, all for one; we strike first, and then you're done!"
—Oath of the Kobold Musketeers , Kher Keep is unique among fortresses: impervious to aerial assault but defenseless from the ground. , The Taskmaster knows that there is no cure for the common Kobold. , "The monks of the North Tree rarely saw their kodama until the Kami War, when it woke like a slumbering, angry bear."
—"Poem of the Five Trees" , "The monks of the South Tree had always reveled beneath their kodama's friendly gaze. During the Kami War, this gaze became fierce and full of hate."
—"Poem of the Five Trees" , "The land grows only where the kami will it."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf , The fall of the evening star never heralds a gentle dawn. , She answers the call of the Crave, the desire for battle sated only by bloodshed. , Kolaghan has no lasting home, but her disciples leave relics to mark her conquests. , Kolaghan's army rushes from kill to kill, desperate to avoid the dragon's wrath. , "Such a lord as this—all virtues' height— Had never been, nor ever was again." , "I know these waters better than you know yourselves." , Every kor blade is imbued with the skill of a thousand generations. , The high-pitched whirl of a hook is the only battle cry she needs. , Kor have no concept of exploration. They return to homelands forgotten. , "He told us not to worry, and he walked into the cavern. The swirling mass of Eldrazi parted to admit him, then closed in his wake."
—Akiri, kor line-slinger , "The landbind ritual connects us to our sacred sites. More importantly, it binds us with every other kor who has visited here, through countless generations." , The true treasure no thief can touch. , Rath's new evincar eliminated the brutish moggs and took a new slave race, one more reminiscent of her own feline grace. , "Swords cannot reach far enough. Chains cannot strike hard enough. An eternal dilemma, but a simple one." , "We came into this world together. We fight for this world together. We'll leave this world together." , "A river of lava is just another river to cross." , "For us, a rope represents the ties that bind the kor. For you, it's more literal." , "I tried to tell her to stay behind, that this fight was too dangerous. I spent the next hour tied to the rafters."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader , "We take only what we need to survive. Believe me, you will need this." , "Welcome to my collection." , "Why keep such trinkets? They only add weight to your travels." , The kor of Zendikar are known for quiet determination in the face of overwhelming odds. , "With rope, I can fly as far as the rope can reach. But with light, the sky is the limit." , "Sometimes I snare the unexpected, but I know its purpose will be revealed in time." , She reaches beyond the physical realm, touching the ideals from which all creatures draw their power. , Transformed at his own wedding, he promptly ate the banquet, the gifts, and the guests. , Treachery and anarchy make poor partners. , "I will be your most demanding master, Liliana. But I have great things in mind for you." , Koth sent partisans into the Tangle to bring survivors to the safe haven of the tunnels below Kuldotha. , "In the dark places of our world, something horrible is growing. I fear our foes may be more numerous than we had imagined."
—Nissa Revane , "We didn't know where it came from or where it was going. All we knew was that we did not matter."
—Akiri, kor line-slinger , It's difficult to outwit something that doesn't speak, strategize, or even think. , It moves through the tunnels as slowly and surely as the shifting stones. , Listen to the sound of defeat. , From nothingness, sustenance. , A void as cryptic as reality itself. , Minotaurs go into battle hungry. The first sight of their enemies' blood sends them into a flesh-eating rage. , A warcaller merely brings the herd together. After that, the meat-hunger is all the encouragement they need. , A spike and a maul are needed to crack their shells, but the taste is worth the effort. , Thassa felt no need to punish the sailors for their folly in crossing the straits. The kraken would do it for her. , It's seen the wonders of entire worlds trapped in the depths of a bottomless ocean. , "A perfect reflection of its world: brutal, fetal, and lacking truth."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , "A surly beast, the kranioceros will raise its defenses at the smallest threat. Stay out of sight and downwind, or you'll disrupt its natural migrations."
—Ebrel, godtoucher mentor , "Well, I jammed the whatsit into the whackdoodle, but I think I broke the thingamajigger." , The more weapons a goblin breaks in battle, the more respected he becomes. , All the junk, refuse, and offal of the Krark Clan is diligently collected, melted down, and made into more junk, refuse, and offal. , The Krark Clan believes it's caught an ogre. The ogre believes he's caught seven goblins. , "What do you mean, we're out of stuff to melt down? Give me your leg." , Fallen enemies are fed to the scavengers. Fallen friends are thrown into the Great Furnace, their souls returned to the Great Mother. , Krark was the kind of goblin who'd lose his thumb in a wager and come right back with "Double or nothing!" , "I can think of one goblin it ain't so lucky for."
—Slobad, goblin tinkerer , "Double or nothing." , Feed on food, you eventually rot. Feed on rot, you live forever.
—Kraul saying , The kraul once skulked in the outskirts of Golgari society, but with Vraska's rise, the became valued forces of the Swarm. , He listens to the sounds of battle filtering down from above, waiting for silence, waiting for his time to claim the streets. , The hive has a long memory. It knows how every member has died, and tow home it owes the grudge. , The insectile kraul lurk in the tunnels below street level. Many are loyal to the Golgari Swarm, but others follow their own esoteric caste system. , "It lives . . . IT LIVES!"
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist , "I got your milk right here!" , "He displays a perverse charisma fueled by avarice. Highly dangerous. Recommend civil sanctions."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar , Goblins are eager to follow orders, especially when those orders involve stealing, hurting, annoying, eating, destroying, or swearing. , He just likes to break legs. Collecting the debt is a bonus. , "After the people flee, but before the enemy arrives—that's grabbin' time." , Each of his twenty-two braids is bound with bone and leather from a foe. , Her blade draws blood without ever touching its target. , Looking over two city blocks of destruction, he could only cackle with pride. , Krond, the personification of the dawn's light, lives to exact justice on his nemesis Vela. , She'd have a fearsome reputation if she left any survivors. , Those who see the squirrels go underground in the winter aren't ready for what emerges in the spring. , When it walked, it altered geography. When it bellowed, it changed the weather. , "It's a slithering, coldblooded menace. I've gotta respect that."
—Braids, dementia summoner , "Sit." , "Druids endure disaster as seeds endure winter. Now Krosa blooms once more." , "Give up these unnatural weapons, these scrolls. Heart and mind and fist are enough."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid , You know it's coming when you hear the distant thunder. You know where it's been when you see the path of broken trees. , It turns prey into predator. , "The Krosan Forest lives, and druids are its seeds."
—Seton, centaur druid , "The Elementalists' talents could be useful if turned to other purposes."
—Zur the Enchanter , Some Krovikans find strength in the ears and eyes of their victims and wear such fetishes into battle. , "It's as strong as you believe it is, and it's very convincing."
—Jace Beleren , The few surviving humans of Krov would have welcomed the return of winter and its sterilizing cold. They often peered northward, hoping that the snow's edge had reached their infested city-tomb. , "These sorcerers always seem to have another surprise up their sleeves."
—Zur the Enchanter , undefined , Unhappy with the creation of the wolfir, Rorica broke with her order and led a crusade against the "reformed werewolves." , "The Abzan replaced my savagery with a noble heritage. I would give my life for my House." , The horizon is tantalizing in both its uncertainty and its potential. , Every leaf, tree, and building in Kujar has been placed to achieve maximum harmony, in accordance with the elvish philosophy known as the Great Conduit. , ". . . pirates gambled with a djinn and lost the thing more dear than gold."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , The goblins say it used to be larger, before it began to stoke the Great Furnace with pieces of itself. , All goblin rituals serve a dual purpose as fertility rites, even the destructive ones. Especially the destructive ones. , Being surrounded by goblins is less objectionable when they're fighting *for* you. , Mounted cinders circle the blasted peak at Kulrath, hunting the Extinguisher. , "Long before he reluctantly joined the war, stories spread of Kumano's followers winning victories against the kami."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , "The same power that drives the river ever onward flows through the roots and branches—to me." , Three sharp barks announce an attempt to escape the Underworld. Three sharp bites end it. , When it walks through Krosa, trees step aside, leaves take wing, and the ground shudders. , The Onakke were masters of dark arts and artifice. Their creations continue to spread foul magic, paving the way for their return. , Simple bargains are the most tempting, and oni bargains are the simplest of all: eternal life for eternal service. , Descendant of a vanished land, student of a forgotten general, and master of blades no smith could forge anew. He honors them all by living a life worthy of song. , She bears the greatest burden of all: that of knowing. , "The raging gale fans the flames of righteous wrath." , "Look what we fought for. Look what we built together." , "Kyoki, Eater of Minds, Corrupter of Thoughts, Bringer of Madness, Lord of Fear. Return, by our blood, and walk again."
—Ogre chant , Mercadia's Kyren goblins are the opposite of Dominarian goblins: they're smart and cowardly. , Kyren goblins always speak in questions and never allow wrong answers. , Kyren goblins always act behind the scenes—even in battle. , Kytheon and his irregulars worked outside the law to bring justice to the streets of Akros. , "Seal the gate. This is our fight now." , It keeps intruders out and experiments in. , "Many hands make light work."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist , His mind whirled with grand plans, never thinking of what might happen if he were to succeed. , "It used to be a lair. Now it's just a tunnel." , "I doubt any labyrinth minotaurs still live—but then again, we minotaurs are stubborn beings."
—Onatah, Anaba Shaman , For centuries, the minotaur polis of Skophos was unknown to humans. It remains unexplored. , They leave a trail of ash and sorrow. , Proximity guarantees injury or death. , The screams are brief. The silence lingers. , They don't feed; they stoke. , "Which is more filled with poison: the flower of the moonglove or the minds of elves?"
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue , "I said 'Put him in a *core set*, not a corset!'"
—Richard Garfield, Ph.D. , "When milady was young, the sight of a rainbow would fill her soul with peace. As she grew, she learned to share her rapture with others."
—Lady Gabriella , "I do not remember what he said to her. I remember her fiery eyes, fixed upon him for an instant. I remember a flash, and the hot breath of sudden flames made me turn away. When I looked again, Angus was gone."
—A Wayfarer, on meeting Lady Orca , Sister to Sun Quan and wife to Liu Bei, Lady Sun often felt her loyalty to both tested. , "A man, and such a fool! I, a woman, will fight them for you."
—Lady Zhurong to her husband Meng Huo, before leading an army against the Shu , Tracing their ancestry back to Zendikar's earliest forms of life, lagac lizards have seen the comings and goings of planeswalkers and the Eldrazi, and the rise of the vampire clans, none of which has changed them one bit. , "The best lessons are not the ones I teach. They are the ones the pupils realize for themselves." , "Our stories are full of ancient wisdom; they tell us who we are." , Go forth with honor, return with glory. , "The fiends have fled. Well, good riddance. Nothing I like more than an empty lair." , A giant can brood over a grudge for decades, and woe to those who interrupt him. , undefined , undefined , "A ribbon torn will ward away dark dreams." , "Grief-struck, she weeps for each mortal's final death."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet , For stitchers and necro-alchemists, it's important that work can continue at all hours. , Nearly all sets of Kor twins are trained as lancers. , "These polearms were supposed to help!"
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol , "Honor this place, for our children's children will stand here and speak these same words again."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric , "The standard cure for leeches requires the application of burning embers. Alternative methods must be devised should an ember of sufficient size prove more harmful than the leech."
—Vervamon the Elder , Sometimes the mountain takes.
—Keldon saying , Life is such a fragile thing. , "Snuffing the light of a lantern without saying a small prayer is bad luck. Though its flame can only singe, its soul can repeatedly visit misery on one's house."
—Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails , Each eye sees a different possibility for tomorrow. , Hedron lanterns fend off more than just the darkness. , Bound to the square where she died, she calls out to those in danger—usually scaring them straight into the peril she warns of. , Without a connection of mind and body, magic is just an idea stuck in the head, a word on the tip of a tongue. , Chainer's dark gift to a darker soul. , One never knows when inspiration will bubble up. , "The first time was amusing, but now you're getting tiresome." , Opportunity makes the thief.
—Roman proverb , "They say Head Judge Tezzeret will be reviewing every invention at the Fair. I made sure to build something that will stand out."
—Jehvani, Vahadar artificer , Those it won't scare, it scars. , "No matter who their fickle hearts worship, all mortals belong to one god in the end."
—Iadorna, death priest of Erebos , "Another angry mob? When will they learn to leave me be?"
—Terryn, Edgewall outcast , In time, all things turn to dust. Some things just take less time. , "If you're gonna lose, at least make sure they don't win as much."
—Jula, goblin raider , Takedowns in Valor's Reach are never meant to be lethal, but that doesn't mean they won't be incredibly painful. , "Romanticize it, glamorize it, call it what you will. To me, it will always be carnal, bloody murder."
—Ayli, Kamsa cleric , Some train all their lives for a shot at the title. Some just get really, really lucky. , "Someday, someone will best me. But it won't be today, and it won't be you." , It seeks a tomb that will hold it, a coffin that will give it rest. , Travelers to Lathnu, high on the Devra Cliffs, need not fear the political strife of Ghirapur . . . but they have other dangers to worry about. , "All the knowledge of Lat-Nam could not protect its sages from the Brothers' War."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , "Everything around her suffers."
—Haddad, Kipamu soldier , "Two muffins are baking in an oven. One muffin says to the other muffin, 'It's getting hot in here, huh?' The other muffin says, 'Aagh! A talking muffin!'" , Life's too short to not do the things you love. , "Catch!" , Warm enough to incubate eggs or incinerate those who would eat them. , To treat flesh wounds, use earth. To treat earth wounds, use flesh.
—Barbarian saying , "Her voice is disaster, painful and final."
—Matoc, lavamancer , "Take one wrong step out of here and you're dead. I take only right steps." , "Overkill? This isn't a game of Kick-the-Ouphe!"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , "Commander, we caught the Dimir spy and took her ashes into custody."
—Kramm, Wojek security officer , "Small outbursts are healthy."
—Koth of the Hammer , People ran as never before at the thought of being buried and cremated at the same time. , "Then the ancient masters themselves, towers of rapacity, rose and began their calamitous feast."
—*The Invokers' Tales* , What cats bury, dogs eat.
—Urborg aphorism , She swings with the ease of flowing lava and hits with the force of a meteor. , Alara's burning blood cannot be contained by mere earth and stone. , Lavabrink's boiling moat is a deterrent for most, and a relaxing bath for one. , It's not the most subtle incantation, but it gets the point across. , Goblins were first to see the potential of hedrons in the fight against the Eldrazi, for the magical stones came ready-made with pointy bits. , They say lava conquers all. , "I told Jace that Ravnica would fall apart if he didn't take his responsibilities seriously. I didn't want to be right." , One injustice starts a thousand riots. One law stops a thousand crimes.
—Lawbringer creed , Kaladesh's illicit marketplaces are known as "night markets," but if you know who to ask, you can find what you're looking for at any time of the day. , "See that no one enters or leaves New Prahv today. And notify me at once of any Planeswalker activity."
—Dovin Baan , "It's good to learn from your failures, but I prefer to learn from the failures of others."
—Jace Beleren , "True intentions lie not in the head but in the heart."
—Bontu, god of ambition , Initiates need worry only about the trials. Everything else is in the hands of the gods. , Victory favors neither the righteous nor the wicked. It favors the prepared. , Skirk Ridge had survived earthquakes, mudslides, and meteor showers. Then the goblins moved in. , "I know I should be more concerned. But a big, blue zombie-potamus from beyond the stars? This is what they're invading us with?"
—Mileva, Boros legionnaire , Despite their many forms, the Eternals worked in chilling harmony, unburdened by instinct or emotion. , "Never underestimate our enemy's strength, brutality, . . . or stupidity."
—Commander Eesha , Gideon and Nissa carved a path through the Eldrazi swarm, and their Zendikari allies charged into the fray behind them. , The myr are like necrogen: a transformative force unconcerned with the changes they wreak. , "While they scramble to fill the sudden vacancy at the top, we strike."
—Sedris, the Traitor King , Slow and heavy swings the club. , "Those who think the trees shall remain bystanders throughout this conflict shall be sorely mistaken."
—Sutina, Speaker of the Tajuru , A leaf dancer sweeps through the forest like a spring breeze, evading even the sharpest eyes and ears. , "The best experiments are those whose successes replicate themselves."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer , Eidren, perfect of Lys Alana, ordered hundreds of trees uprooted and rearranged into a pattern he deemed beautiful. Thus the Gilt-Leaf Wood was born. , "My roots are ash, my heart a smoldering ember. What I could not protect, I will avenge." , "I am rooted in the life of all that thrives around me. You cannot move me." , Mirri leapt quickly and silently. The guard died likewise. , "Most compete for insects at street level. Some dwell near Izzet laboratories and ride the thermal updrafts."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer , "I never question the Autumn Willow about her motives, not even when she turns people into lizards. It's her way."
—Devin, faerie noble , "Strength batters down barriers. Discipline ignores them." , The finest maneuvers take place in three dimensions. , "I've been told my whole life that the great Ojutai holds all knowledge, but I wonder what our forebears knew."
—Narset , Constructed of leather and irony. , Heavy enough to withstand the Roil, leatherback skeletons are havens for travelers in storms and landshifts. , The daredevil racers of the Derby Crows, long at odds with the Consulate, were quick to join the renegades in open revolt. , The magic of the Boros patrols the streets even when their soldiers do not. , "I've raised her since she was a pup, and she's raised me since I was a recruit." , Some don't know his face, but his pets are a dead giveaway. , "Where our potions and powders fail, perhaps nature will succeed."
—Reyhan, Samite Alchemist , A substantial portion of Vorinclex's forces became fuel for the rest. , "Seeing one slowly devour one of my party begged the question—do they know what cruelty is?"
—Hastric, Thunian scout , The banner was not a symbol of victory, but a herald of the carnage to come. , "Only a gargoyle would take such delight in a thunderstorm."
—Qhattib, Vizier of Amiqat , It emerges from the mists only to feed. , Squee tucked the warm ball in his pocket and slipped a pebble in its place. "Glok," he mumbled, and hid. , "We are many, and righteous." , The Legion of Dusk sailed from Torrezon in search of glory, riches, and the Immortal Sun. , "We long ago abandoned the things that make humans weak: friendship, marriage, family. All that remains is the strength of our devotion." , "With a single word, they were unmade."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire* , "My lance was once wielded by Venerable Tarrian. In his name and by his might, I cast you down!" , undefined , "I have seen the faces of my dead friends among that grim band, and I can bear no more."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield , "Those who do evil and those who do nothing are equally worthy of contempt." , "Water shifts and confuses, but as ice it holds the stillness of truth."
—Arel the Whisperer , Only leonin clerics who can survive the Razor Fields for one turning of the suns can stand in the Cave of Light. , "Our people are torn by infighting. Until the two sides reconcile, our laws can carry no meaning." , Well suited are the nacatl to a coat of steel and forge-tempered claws. , The strongest of the pride are measured not by the steel in their hands but by the steel in their souls. , No one under the four suns can elude the watchful eye of the den-guard. , "The wisdom of the elders is just as much a weapon as a sword or spear. We must learn to wield it."
—Ushanti, leonin seer , "The stars belong in the night sky. This is our world, and we are our own masters." , Leonin band together in the Underworld, taking solace in their strength until, at last, both pride and self are forgotten. , "Every scratch tells a story, and every notch has a name. Four generations have held this blade. You shall not disappoint them."
—Initiation of Laena, skyhunter , Her instinct is as sharp as her blade. , The skyhunters were born when the first leonin gazed at the heavens and wished to hunt the birds overhead. , Formerly oppressed by the polis of Meletis, leonin occasionally "mistake" their old enemies for game. , "I may be kha, but without my soldiers, my people, I am nothing."
—Raksha Golden Cub , The commander tells the troops where to go, but the standard reminds them why they're there. , The best fighters are skilled in both harming and healing. , When one leonin hunts, many more are surely nearby. , This strange beast has the hide of a leopard, the howl of a dog, and the horns of an ox. , "I'm sure we can come to an arrangement." , "Brackish water, dark and blind Heed my will, to you I bind."
—Opening passage of Leshrac's Rite , "In some cultures, elephants are ridden by those in power. I don't think a mere elephant would even be noticed in Keld."
—Onean sergeant , Initiates once believed defeat was the worst fate possible—a sentiment they quickly abandoned. , The vapors infiltrate every crevice, poison every lung, and snuff out every life. , Suddenly, Zurdi didn't care about treasure, glory, food . . . or the drakes circling above. , "Dear Magic R&D, . . ." , Once a century, the levelers rip through every corner of Mirrodin, obeying the commands of an unseen master. , "Why fight over scraps of land when there's so much sky waiting to be claimed?" , Plucking the chicken
—Elvish expression meaning "flinging the monkey" , After years of training, the druid becomes one with nature, drawing power from the land and returning it when needed. , "I can feel the strength of the entire forest."
—Gerrard , Where sovereignty and flesh converge. , Where storm and spellcraft converge. , Where renown and solitude converge. , Where strength and humility converge. , Where treachery and oblivion converge. , "Is the maze itself a phantom? Or is one as real as the other? Perhaps I am as mad as the dragon."
—Jace Beleren, journal , It feeds on the dark energies that course through the deep world—and on any other creature lured by the leyline's pull. , "Ach! Hans, run! It's the lhurgoyf!"
—Saffi Eriksdotter, last words , Gerrard realized that the helpless woman they'd rescued from Rath was nothing of the sort. , "Not everyone gets a second chance."
—Hanna , Freed from their chains, these dwarves are bound only by honor. , "I specialize in missing manuscripts, pilfered poetry, and lifted letters." , A lich must consume mortal souls to feed its eternal life. , It shows not what you are but what you were. , "I give my blood, my life, all I have in exchange for victory." , "His strengths are pride, devotion, and ambition. His weaknesses are the same."
—Pianna, nomad captain , "It was a sight of pain and awe—a twisted forest, migrating across the salt plain in search of richer soil."
—Edahlis, greenseeker , "Foolish wizard! As you tap the power of your lofty keep, so grows my strength."
—Malvern Xelionos, *Letters* , Pharika has written her secrets on its bones so that only the worthy may discover them. , As uplifting as a mystic's dreams. , "It was made, yes, but that does not mean it cannot grow." , "I do not ask you to be tame. I only ask you to be true."
—Rishkar, Peema renegade , "Inspiration is found by looking outward."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter , The best engineers recognize when a problem has already been solved. , "Every fallen tree nourishes a thousand seedlings."
—Autumn Willow to Baron Sengir , "When there is no one left but the ravens, the Swarm will rise and rule all."
—Lost prophecy of Svogthir , "Walk the world and you'll find your soul; search your soul and you'll discover the world."
—Diary of Azusa , "If you believe the God-Pharaoh tests you, charge with me to prove yourself. If you believe he betrayed us all, join with me to fight for tomorrow!"
—Samut, former Tah-crop initiate , The spoils of war are not measured only in gold and silver. , The feeble resistance of the flesh is over. Phyrexia spreads its shadow over all. , At the instant of death, the mystery of life. , The Sylvok see the artificer as a gardener, preparing the world for hardy growth. , "Awaken that which was never asleep."
—Spellbomb inscription , "The husk splits like a madman's smile And mystery steps forth."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet , "The land is not dead, merely sick. I will nurse it back to health." , "Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come."
—Chinese proverb , One thought opens a thousand eyes. One sun brings a thousand dawns.
—Lightbringer creed , "Muscle does not make one strong. It only masks the soul's light. True strength lies in purity of purpose."
—Donal Alloway, cenn of Kinscaer , If you want to kill a lot of goblins, just make sure your defenses look like fun. , Sudden vengeance, echoing fury. , "A gargoyle's meat can be carved with an ordinary cleaver, but for its petrous hide . . ."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, *The Underworld Cookbook* , "Those who fear the darkness have never seen what the light can do."
—Selenia, dark angel , "If you do it right, they'll never know what hit them."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , The sparkmage shrieked, calling on the rage of the storms of his youth. To his surprise, the sky responded with a fierce energy he'd never thought to see again. , The mightiest clouds sit upon spires of fire.
—Femeref adage , "That's the third time this month it's exploded on site. Maybe we should switch to something a little less defective."
—Kerrin, archaeologist , Broken and punctured by dozens of Phyrexian portals, the angry sky began to spit lightning back at the world. , "I fight for Keranos and for mortals. I see no contradiction." , "Oh, it's easy enough to kill, but I'm not going anywhere near it."
—Norin the Wary , After lightning struck the cliffs, the ore became iron, the iron became steel, and the steel became greaves. The lightning never left. , "Rage is not the answer. Rage followed by fitting vengeance is the answer."
—Ajani Goldmane , Quick enough to avoid jhovalls when alone and fierce enough to attack them in packs, the hounds were as at home in the mountains as the Mercadians were atop theirs. , The harpies descended without mercy upon Akros, only to find their attack put them within range of the javelineers. , When it passes, storm clouds bolt across the land. , "Undead flesh is dry and papery. A single spark and 'poof.' No more ghoul." , "Inhale. Kill. Exhale." , "Jealous of storms, Vadrok took lightning from the sky and buried it deep underneath the earth. It still rumbles there, longing to escape."
—*Tales of the Ozolith* , A pirate ship in battle is a storm of activity. , "Catch me if you can." , Ice exploded into steam in its wake, hissing like a thousand serpents hailing their blazing master. , Dragonslayers learned to keep silent about their deeds after seeing the terrible vengeance wrought by Kolaghan and her brood. , "I strike in the same place as many times as necessary." , To wield lightning is to tame chaos. , "The victim was either clawed to death or struck by lightning. Possibly both."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator , "The gods don't speak to mortals with gentle entreaties. They speak with thunder and fury." , "We are the motes of rain that join to make the thundercloud. The power of the storm god surges through us!" , "I do not miss sunlight. The very memory of it burns my eyes."
—Volrath , The light washed over him, and in the wind he heard the roars of all the pridemates who had come before. , The Legion looks after its own. , "Places, everyone!"
—Judith , "The greatest gift Dromoka gives is the ability to fly without wings."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior , Bulgo paused, puzzled. What was that rustling sound, and why did he feel so stiff? And how could his *feet* be so thirsty? , "This might hurt less if you don't fight so hard. But I doubt it." , Immortality is worth any price. , "All the power you have gathered for yourself, Liliana, I can take away."
—Nicol Bolas , Liliana inspires horror in many and fanatical admiration in a few. , "You have to admit, Gideon—he has great form."
—Liliana Vess , "Days ago, you came to my door asking for help, Jace. Yet now here you are with accusations?" , "There are so many of them. It seems they've just been waiting for someone to serve." , "We're done here." , "This arm's got plenty of use left in it. Who'd throw such a nice thing away?" , "The finest minions know what I need without me ever saying a thing."
—Liliana Vess , The purple banner of the House of Vess is a symbol of death wherever it's flown. , Servants at Vess Manor are chosen for their strong work ethic and respectful demeanor. Being alive is not required. , Her triumph came not from escaping her death, but in claiming her independence. , "Join me in the place of power, you risen dead. Join me where the waters weep and the trees have no hearts."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , "The weak shall fall. The strong shall remain."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , "The guard will forever stand ready. For them, death is merely an inconvenience, not an ending."
—Chaeska, Keeper of Tresserhorn , Dwarves have been known to take pickaxes to their own creations, hoping to discover treasures within. , "When the time comes, only one of you will be honored by my spear."
—Hazoret, god of zeal , "Until my last breath, I will defend the realm." , "Looks bad. I don't know if he'll make it through the night."
—Cabal cleric , Birds frozen in flight. Sea turned to glass. Tolaria hidden in a mirror. , "True power never dies, but lies awake, waiting for its name to be spoken."
—*The Eldest Reborn* , The murdered inhabitants of Hollowhenge impart to the living the terror they felt in death. , The bogeyman doesn't disappear when you close your eyes. , Those who seek to disturb the harmony of life will see their instruments taken from them. , "Your signet is no symbol of power. It marks only your need for numbers to aid you. What do you do, guild-rat, now that you face my blade alone?" , Held in the lion's eye
—Zhalfirin saying meaning "caught in the moment of crisis" , There's no such thing as a little bit of lava. , "They'll soon become accustomed to wearing skin that is not their own."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite , Heedless of Nissa's warnings, Nahiri repeated history. , "Even in the hands of amateurs, Nahiri's hedrons can harm the Eldrazi."
—Ugin , It's viciously territorial, destroying every creature on the mountain it has chosen to consume. , In the future, she may be a distinguished leader, a great scholar, or a decorated hero. These days all she does is pee the bed. , "You harbor such vast potential. It would be such a shame to let you die of old age."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord , "Only wisdom and virtue can truly win men's devotion."
—Liu Bei , "When you have the chance, take it. Laugh, sing, dance. Don't allow the night to end." , The ship has a crew of three: the pilot, the gunner, and the ship itself. , Though it affords excellent protection, few don this armor. The process is uncomfortable and not easily reversed. , "That our enemies are great only brings us greater hope." , In its center is a single red ant, a queen that regulates the hive's movements. , Not all storms come from the sky. , "If you don't like the weather, just wait a few minutes and it'll change ... probably for the worse."
—Amandi, kitesail expert , Some warriors walk the earth. Others are born of it. , At low tide it slumbers. At high tide it devours. , "The ancient places of Ravnica awaken, stirred by the hoofbeats of Ilharg!"
—Nikya of the Old Ways , Some fiendish mage had created a horrifying wall of living flesh, patched together from a jumble of still-recognizable body parts. As we sought to hew our way through it, some unknown power healed the gaping wounds we cut, denying us passage. , The best wishes include the will to tame their consequences. , Livonya's own nature is a matter of mystery. Nothing is known for sure, merely rumors of unearthly stealth, and unholy alliances. , Don't let its appearance frighten you. Let its claws and teeth do that. , "I am irrelevant. The future I hold in my hands is everything." , "Most people can't build decent weapons out of stone or steel. Trust the elves to do it with only mud and vines."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , For the first time, elves welcomed Benalish soldiers into the forest with something other than arrows. , Just as leaves fall from the branches of a living tree, so too do the dead leave the elfhame. , "This forest means more to the druids than their own kin. The loss of a tree is like the loss of a child."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , As patient and generous as life, as harsh and merciless as nature. , "Cherish this world in honor of the martyrs who saved it. We too must be prepared to give our lives."
—*The Mending of Dominaria* , Her armor and steed were borrowed, but her courage was hers alone. , Llanowar elfhames occupy different heights within the great forest. Elves of the Loridalh and Kelfae hames can see neither earth nor sky. , "The forest has as many eyes as leaves."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , "Llanowar remembers the Ice Age, the Phyrexian Invasion, and the Rift Era. So long as we draw breath, we will ensure such disasters never threaten our world again." , Llanowar rallied around Eladamri's banner and united in his name. , The elves of Llanowar look to their past to determine the shape of their future. , "Forget it. I'm not getting up today." , Giants sleep soundly and long, sometimes for long enough that a crust of earth and moss grows over them. But inevitably something disturbs their slumber, and they wake unhappy. , "I've never known dryads to suffer visitors in their woods. Beware the Ulvenwald when she welcomes you."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig , "You know its mood by the plants that spring up around it. When it is placid, fields of lilies flow in its wake; when it is angry, every stem has a thorn."
—Isao, Enlightened Bushi , "The living don't ever stay living, and the dead don't always stay dead."
—Jeddeg, philosopher of graves , The forest floor of Murasa is home to life as diverse and vibrant as that of the canopy above. , In Zendikar, today's grassland could be tomorrow's jungle, and hunting grounds change as quickly as the weather. , "I see... elk? And lion? And... teeth! A lot of teeth!"
—Teraklos of Meletis , It's easier to just aim at everything. , "Time for you to meet the brains of this operation!"
—The Big Idea , Despite its ferocity, its favor can be won with a gift of something it's never seen before. , "Don't look upon still waters without first breaking the surface. The korrigan will catch you with her gaze and drag you to your death."
—Kithkin superstition , Every hour, at the turning of the glass, its owner had whispered to the locket, seeding it with secrets. This would be her legacy, her memory, if the rifts should take her. , "As the traitor hurried across the courtyard, its eyes snapped open. It was time to pay the queen a visit."
—*Beyond the Great Henge* , "I will find the king if I have to ride from summer to winter and back again." , "They're numerous, attack in swarms, and are always hungry. No wonder we rats hold such a kinship with them." , Better a fierce thunderhead than a sky filled with locusts. , "Somehow it warps the Æther. It brings a strange weight, a blockade in the flow of spellcraft."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage , When necessary, myr can override and control any artificial object, as can their creator. , The mage scowled as yet another bolt splashed harmlessly against seemingly empty air. , His mission has become a grim pilgrimage, a tour of the Eldrazi-stricken outposts across Zendikar. But he marches on alone, stubborn as the daily dawn. , undefined , A wolf without a pack is either a survivor or a brute. , Some say they have the blood of hawks running through their veins. , The aethersphere is home to the most wondrous beings on all of Kaladesh, although the dangers of traversing it mean that not much is known of them. , Long ago, the priests would wave the gohei to call down the gods. Now it lies forgotten, but the spirits still feel its pull. , Its blast can fuse armor to bone, leaving skeletons that glint brightly in the sun. , The person who finishes a journey is rarely the same as the one who starts it. , "Wait, it'll come to me in a minute." , It won't be small forever. , Few understand the DCI's rigorous decision-making process. , Her song plucks the strings of the storm, shifting wind and storm into a harmony that will carry her ship to safety. , Nature can't be tamed, but the Sun Empire believes that humans are made stronger when they test themselves against the wild strength of the dinosaurs. , Although mute, hoverguards get their message across loud and clear. , Its form never rests, propelled by some undetectable gale from beyond the gloom. , Your sentence can't be longer than this one. , Unable to touch items of value, he goes forth to steal secrets instead. , A master of tactics, the Lord of Atlantis makes his people bold in battle merely by arriving to lead them. , The forlorn cries of the dead combine to make its laugh. , The Curse of Wandering leaves only hatred. , "My summoning begins your debt, Planeswalker." , "I confer with Death itself. What could you possibly do to injure me?"
—Lord Dralnu , "The dream does not end until I say so." , Lies are sold as often as truths—and used just as effectively. , "The enlightenment I never found in etherium I have found traced in the coatl's scales."
—Ranalus, vedalken heretic , Each volume contains wonders. , Mages come from far and wide to bathe in its wisdom. , When Lorthos emerges from his deepwater realm, the tides bow to his will and the coastline cowers in his presence. , A lifetime of discipline forsaken in a moment of rage. , "Your thoughts do not interest me nearly as much as the absence thereof."
—Gorghul, augur of skulls , Even those who leave the labyrinth never escape it, forever dreaming of their time trapped within. , The secrets she carried could have saved many lives, but they quietly drowned with her. , "That name shall not be spoken."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance , Even death cannot diminish the persistence of the knights of Locthwain. , Mirrans were broken down and rebuilt, made to be loyal servants of the force they had fought. , "Let us remember brave Jarkeld and his troops, who perished in the Adarkar Wastes so long ago."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , Her hand gently beckons, she whispers your name—but those who go with her are never the same. , "I prefer the big and looming to the small and skittering."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman , He lurks in the undercity, eager for the corpse haulers to unload their rotting cargo. , Its hood blossoms as a warning: receive your gift, but stray no closer. , Every action has a foreseen purpose. , Lotus fields are too valuable to leave undefended. , "The lotus takes root where body and mind intersect. It blooms when body and mind become one." , "Hard to imagine," mused Hanna, stroking the petal, "such a lovely flower inspiring such greed." , At what price beauty? , His mind chose solitude, but his heart disagreed. , "A massacre? It is a mercy we grant them. This way they won't freeze to death." , Unlike their cousins, Rathi basilisks turn their victims into puddles of flowstone. , "Faugh!" snorted Tahngarth. "Why would it make a meal of something like you?" Squee looked relieved. "No," he continued, "you'd make a much better toothpick." , "I don't know why the little one was so mad. He said to put him down, and I put him down." , "I feed my hatred to the righteous and they join my crusade."
—Akroma, angelic avenger , The loxodon ascribe religious superiority to those born albino, believing them to be spiritually pure. , Just one drop of the glistening oil can eventually stain even a soul as stalwart as a loxodon's beyond redemption. , The gatekeepers are so fastidious that even the winds must wait to pass. , "I have lived long, and I remember how this city once was. If my death serves to bring back the Ravnica in my memory, then so be it." , Loxodons are firm in stature and spirit. No matter the odds, they are always first into battle. , The Auriok believe that in the hands of a loxodon, no weapon can be broken. , Elder mystics take their vow of silence so seriously that they impose it on any who enter their presence. , "On every plane I've encountered loxodons, I've found stalwart and loyal friends."
—Elspeth , The loxodons believe punishment comes in two steps: pain and atonement. They carry a weapon for each. , His voice is both war horn and rallying cry, a trumpeting call that stirs even the faintest heart. , Long ago, the Auriok attempted peace with the loxodons. The leonin attempted war. Neither succeeded. , "A crafter must imbue her weapon with part of her soul—something the Phyrexians are incapable of doing."
—Melira , The Mirran elders vanished with Memnarch, leaving behind a generation of wayward orphans. , Those with knowledge are wise to listen to those with imagination. , undefined , "Doves and pigeons are too subtle. When I send a message, I want it to have some teeth."
—Aeschel, royal diplomat , Each scar on its hide is a badge of honor. , It's tethered not to keep it from fleeing but to keep it from eating everything in sight. , "Even if I should die in the saddle, she will not let me fall to the ground."
—Hypatia of the Winged Horse , His watch ends only when he does. , Zombies work best when they're fed appropriately, so it's prudent to let them eat on the job. , "Dong Zhuo's man, Lu Bu, warrior without peer,/ Far surpassed the champions of his sphere." , It is a herald of the sun goddess, projected from the hallowed glass whenever her light passes through. , Syr Branigan always remembered to kiss his good luck charm, having lost his foot to wolverines the last time he forgot. , "How does one become a self-taught genius? Naturally, it requires brains." , undefined , The clamor of war ceased as both armies stood and marveled at the beauty of Gaea's work. , "Many voices are needed to quiet this land." , "One spell to quiet the Roil, one to quash the will. The principle is the same." , "They store energy in special gastric organs ... but I guess you'd probably rather have me clear the path than ramble about guts."
—Fahar, expedition wizard , The satyr carves the path that all of Rushwood follows.
—Cho-Arrim saying , Animated by geists fused in its oak, it hungers for more life to add to its core. , Information pumps like blood through vedalken society. , Properly outfitted, drakes made perfect sentries for vedalken strongholds. , "Anything that watches without sleep and fights without fear is a valuable ally against the Phyrexians."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent , The vedalken order their Neurok sentinels to watch over the shores of the Quicksilver Sea, as if they know of intruders yet to come. , The wardens keep watch over an endless sea of progress. , As the Wu chief commander, Lu Meng conquered Shu-held Jingzhou in 219 by disguising soldiers as merchants on boats filled with hiding troops. , "Rally to my light, and together we will drive out this darkness!" , "The White Shield is not the burnished metal you lash to your forearm but the conviction that burns in your chest."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield , Storms in Lorwyn don't patter on village rooftops, but rather drench the clachan in rays of amber light. , "The spread of evil's destruction shall always be matched by the rise of the noble fallen." , "Article 5.8.2. Ensure proper restraint of any and all arms, legs, claws, jaws, tails, tentacles, and tendrils as appropriate."
—*Azorius Arrester Procedure*, Appendix B. , It soars through currents of moonbeams to give hope to the forsaken. , "There is no victory without virtue." , "If destiny's champions have arisen to fight the Ancient Ones, then let me, too, do my part."
—Ravuel of Graypelt , Having conquered the Bastion of Suns, the Ota took its light for their own. , "A boon from the angels should never be cast aside."
—Manfried Ulmach, Chief Inquisitor , "Moonlight offers sublime warmth that brings me a comfort sunlight cannot provide." , "I'm pleased this world has learned the moon affects more than the tides."
—Tamiyo, the Moon Sage , Cho-Arrim righteousness was no match for Benalish combat training. , "One's plenty," observed the merrow. "Way too plenty," agreed the boggart. , "Ludevic saw it in a dream and set to work immediately, every detail already known. Can such genius be taught?"
—Stitcher Geralf , The dead that swept across Naktamun came in all shapes and sizes. , It makes the insignificant conspicuous, the repulsive alluring, and the deadly irresistible. , It's a fool's race to run if all is lost if it be won. , "Each night we felt it watching us from the darkness beyond our fire. We only had one pack horse left."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier* , Once it has your scent, it will hunt you from the Gurmag Swamp to Ayagor. , "Shadow birthed it. The moon gave it eyes, and the jungle gave it teeth. But it was Death that taught it cruelty."
—Huatli , "There's no roar so mighty that it can't be silenced." , "Ash is our air, darkness our flesh."
—Phyrexian Scriptures , In the undercity, forgetfulness is often encouraged at the point of a blade. , Often it's not the hunter or the hunted but the opportunist who thrives in Rath. , The shadows know. , All are prey to the eyes of the wild. , They never miss a funeral. , Naya's bounty spills over upon itself. Each leaf and flower struggles against the next with thrashing thorns, acidic pollen, and strangling roots. , Lu Su served as an intermediary between the Wu and Shu kingdoms until Zhou Yu's death in 210, when he became Wu's supreme commander. , Without the God-Pharaoh, there would be no Luxa. Without the Luxa, there would be no life. , There are few problems that can't be solved by putting a hole in the world. , The view is rivaled only by the decadence of the decor. , The Azorius have so many codes and statutes that you're always in violation of one of them. , Its skin remains in a flowing, liquid state that keeps its body coated with potent restorative lymph. , Rarely seen, hardly heard, never caught. , "You are not alone. You never were." , From the highest tiers of Dawn's Light Palace to the deepest shade of Wren's Run, the silver notes of the horn shimmer through the air, and all who hear it feel its pull. , In beauty-obsessed Lys Alana, one cut of her blade means the difference between a high society feast and raking through the dungheap for scraps. , Sacrificial rites take place before an audience of cheering cultists, each begging to be the next on stage. , "Who am I to break up a family?"
—Gisa the Mad , The Rakdos put the "fun" in "funeral." , Liliana is never one to follow someone else's lead. , The goblins tracked the hystrodon with much stealth and cunning. Then they were eaten with much pain and yelling. , As long as there are questions to be asked, the vedalken will ask them. , One part cunning, one part wise, and many, many parts demented. , The larger the crowd, the harder it is for them to run away. , Jace traced Nahiri to the Singing City, but the magic of the ancient ruins threatened to overwhelm his mind. , "It is Freyalise, walking on the world."
—Kolbjörn, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order , The bones it buries may be yours. , "I have seen it. Seen the end, seen the beginning, the beginning of the end. Not death, no, no. Transcendence!" , "Gather round and tell me all from the courts and castles." , Death comes in the blink of an eye. , "When it comes down to it, science is more art than science." , There is no world where angels fear to tread. , "Nothing of the Maelstrom is quiet or easy."
—Ajani Goldmane , During the collision of the shards, entire ways of life disappeared without a trace. , Giving a thing wings does not take away its fear of flight—or its fear of fire, for that matter. , Living below a flowstone foundry produces a disproportionate number of fire mages among the il. , "Don't be rude, Beleren. We just want to enjoy the view with you." , "Next time, don't bother." , "When the wielder is strong enough, any sword will do."
—Kresh the Bloodbraided , When the Lion roars, his cubs grow stronger.
—Kipamu saying , In the jungle of war there is always a Lion. , The stones hark back to an age before civilization, when the living earth blessed all who trod its untamed wilds. , "We do not suddenly fall on death, but advance towards it by slight degrees; we die every day."
—Seneca, *Epistles*, trans. Gummere , "If this is the cure, I'd hate to see the disease."
—Orim , 1|= y()u (4|\| r3@d 7#][5, y0|_| /\r3 @ IVI0/\/$+3|2 &33|< , "These benighted worlds are thick with ignorance. I will educate them. They will listen, or they will die." , The magistrate had been the goblins' puppet for so long that he made the right decisions with little prompting. , Its open mouth is a furnace blast that blisters the skin. Its smoking fists are meteors that split the earth. , The stadium is well-stocked with hazards to force the action if combatants show too much caution. , Some Akroans make the dangerous pilgrimage to the volcanic temples of Purphoros, where oracles known as flamespeakers glean omens from lava. , BOOM! , "Where will you run when I punish you with the very ground you flee on?"
—Nicol Bolas , "Lighting a fire needs kindling and heat. You be the kindling. I'll bring the heat."
—Chandra Nalaar , Sand into glass and flesh into ash—such are the markers of its domain. , As malleable as molten steel, but as dangerous as the finished blade. , "Ashes can't be embalmed."
—Neheb, initiate of Ahn crop , The Needle's Eye, a seldom-used passage that winds through Stensia's mountains, carries travelers close to Ashmouth—too close, some would argue. , It's the pinnacle of utter destructiveness. , Chief among the tenets of Purphoros is that one must destroy in order to create. , Opening like the maw of a hellion, the earth swallowed the traveler whole. , Standing near a volcano
—Barbarian expression meaning "asking for it" , "The purpose of existence is simple: everything is fuel for the magmaw."
—Jaji, magmaw worshipper , After the researcher's astonishing success, his assistants spent six hours finding a way to return the specimens safely to the ground. , Among the Vulshok, the most prized blades are those that killed their original owners. , The seed torches' pollen gives off light, but the elves find it heightens their senses as well. , Knight-Inquisitors of Saint Raban delve deep into mysteries best left unexplored. , He climbs a staircase of falling souls, fighting the continuous pull of the void. , The magus still hears the roar of the crowds. They're gone, but the will to compete remains. , "Some trade in goods, some in secrets. My soul has walked the futures, and I offer the rare coin of possibility." , "What would Urza think, I wonder, if he could hear how the nature mages still snarl at his name, but venerate the work of his apprentice?"
—Teferi, to Jhoira , All that remains of the Cabal are the echoes in its deepest vault. Yet those who hear the echoes feel a power undiminished by the dust of ages. , Studying the journals of the necromage Nevinyrral leaves disciples gripped with the urge to exercise his draconian judgment. , Those gifted with the sight have one eye in the present and the other in the future. , The ancient books slowly crumbled, their secrets turning to dust. But their every word sings within the magus's head. , "I'll show you what you truly desire." , "Behold! The image of the enemy and all that she has. Trust your envy, and take it." , "The spirits of the mythic ones ever circle their beloved keep, forbidding entry to all who come with the heavy tread of hate." , Tidal forces of the blood moon wrench and buckle the land, drawing monoliths of stone and soil toward the flaming orb. , "Life for life. The cost is always the same." , The Tabernacle's disciples channel the emanations from Pendrell Vale, spreading its paradoxical demand to be both worshipped and left alone. , Battered and beaten by years of salt and claw, he never ceased to walk, and to seed. Only now, in this time of rebirth, do his seeds take root. , "Fate is not as fixed as you might think." , "These eyes have shown me the flaws of flesh." , Of royal blood among the spirits of the air, the Mahamoti djinn rides on the wings of the winds. As dangerous in the gambling hall as he is in battle, he is a master of trickery and misdirection. , "Its rise is like the sun's, a beautiful beginning. Its descent is like the sun's, a frightful ending."
—Huatli , "I am the holy wind that shall avenge the Cabal's victims." , For a moment they stood tall, all fear forgotten. , In Gavony wishing is taken as a sign of weakness, yet the wells usually brim with silver. , A tidy desk is as good as an invitation. , Yesterday's marvels are today's antiques. , Their ranks are thin, their formation is improvised, their weapons are borrowed, and you'd best get out of their way. , "This vulgar mimicry will end now."
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run , "It always amazes me what perfectly good things people throw away."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist , "Grease up a firecannon good and proper with dinosaur-liver oil, and it'll shoot just about anything." , "The Eldrazi have surprised us before. It's my job to make sure that never happens again." , As the hedrons began to coalesce into colossal Eldrazi superstructures, the griffins were forced to seek new territory lest their aeries be crushed between the massive stone monoliths. , "May blowflies empty your veins and turn you into a dried leather sack, cow!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad , Working with his noble mount, he notices every form on the horizon, every scent in the air, every tremor in the earth. , The more who rely on him, the more resolute he becomes. , After a battle, it breaks the hillsides into manageable pieces to prepare for next time. , undefined , Centuries before the first branches of the Tangle gave shelter from the suns' cold light, the shadows of golems were Mirrodin's only shade. , "The sun rises, but the world still feels dark. Pray for the arrival of the malachim—they'll bring Dawn to the world and to our hearts."
—Sister Betje, *Miracles of the Saints* , "From your veins to mine." , Each cut stains his blade with fresh blood that he samples to increase his strength. , "They are deadly, and they are loyal. We can spare them a little blood."
—Harak, Malakir bloodwitch , undefined , "Your blood whispers secrets your mind could never comprehend." , The most popular pit fighters are brought back for encore performances. , He has slain a dozen witches, luring each with a promise of fresh children's bones. , A demon cannot be trusted, and a dragon will not be ruled. , "They don't make them like they used to." , "Rule through fear, Darigaaz. Only if the dragons feel terror will they truly be your servants."
—Tevesh Szat , "Such an affliction appears to seek out the pure."
—Byro, plague doctor , As peace returned to Thraben, some cathars made the mistake of letting down their guard. , It descended on Estwald like a sudden storm. Moments later, only ashes and agony remained. , "If a careless elf ends up caught in a spider's web, we must expect nature to take its course. Do not blame the spider for being a spider."
—Dellin Berting, Tolarian entomologist , "I don't know why people say a double-edged sword is bad. It's a sword. With two edges."
—Kamahl, pit fighter , The mana that binds the world together can also tear it apart. , "The Lord of the Wastes must be destroyed; I am bound to this destiny by the chains of fate. If only Gerrard would see his part."
—Sisay, journal , Five rivers encircle Theros, flowing with waters more ancient than the world itself. , At first they thought the vault was empty. Then the walls began to glow. , Those who dismiss the cylix as an ordinary wooden bowl are blind to the true measure of its worth. , Enthusiasm is no match for preparation. , When the ground is saturated with mana, even the lightest footstep can bring it to the surface. , What began as black
Has slowly shifted to red.
Fickle color pie. , As the shards merged, relics once thought mundane regained forgotten powers. , Cinder mystics set traps for sluaghs and other spirits of flame, seeking to extract the secrets of the fire their own hearts have lost. , "I don't care if it's an all-powerful relic or a street vendor's lucky charm. If it brings you courage, wear it."
—Saheeli Rai , The Quicksilver Sea hissed and bubbled at the indignity. The Vulshok shaman just smiled. , "Each night, the artificer tucked the little doll into a locked drawer. Each morning, she awoke to find it waiting beside her with some new bauble."
—"The Artificer's Apprentice" , The fatal flaw in every plan is the assumption that you know more than your enemy. , Planeswalkers seek out great monuments throughout the Multiverse, knowing that their builders were unknowingly drawn by the convergence of mana in the area. , "Those who know only one path to victory can never hope to triumph."
—The Blind Seer , "Master the chaotic forces of nature, and you shall master magic."
—Yare-Tiva, warden of Gramur forest , Urak froze when he heard it. That was his first mistake. He turned and cast a dramatic ward spell. That was his last. , The greatest wonders of nature are found in the smallest saplings straining toward the canopy. , There was no darker or more evil creation in all the multiverse than that of the mana screw. , "It is the nature of humanity not to worry about tomorrow, especially when there's a good chance they won't live to see the end of today."
—Kiku, Night's Flower , "And when this land is wasted, where will we go?"
—Thalakos lament , "Remove their power, and their will to fight will follow."
—Tolarian wizard , They traverse the mana-starved wastes in search of richer lands. , "Those who seek to upset the balance must be taxed for such ambitions."
—Verithain, mesa high priest , The scent of magic can rob you of your senses, blinding you to the world. , "I see in their interconnectedness a strange embodiment of the natural order."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid , "Don't search the ruins of Orn during the day. Nethroi's many eyes will spot you instantly. Don't go at night either. You'll be dinner for the servals. Maybe just don't go."
—Rasai, Indatha hunter , "I have been brought to this place and I cannot leave. I may be free of the amber, but I am still in prison." , "Rely too much on your weapons and watch your dreams shatter in your hands."
—Rhonas, god of strength , Rage is the culmination of an accelerating cycle of anger and violence that feeds itself in battle, spreading like a flame from one warrior to another. , It's fun. He doesn't need another reason. , "Locks want to be opened, and treasure wants to be free."
—Nayrex Slipfinger, master thief , "Early in his reign, Konda fell ill. His head burned with fever, and he saw visions of his future. In them, he saw a spirit-child, and, in that child's eyes, a way to make his empire last forever."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , You need to be this tall to play this card. , Nothing could break it but the fall. , Lungs dried to parchment wheeze blasphemies within a cage of bleached bone. , "Beauty to the eye does not always translate to the touch."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher , "Water is firmament to the finned."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , While most Eternals were initiates who completed the trials, Bolas had plans for some of Amonkhet's other denizens. , In the training ground known as the Gauntlet, initiates are pushed to practice more destructive techniques. , "It's a clever design. You should look closely at its gearing after it swallows your head."
—Jhoira, master artificer , Mantis riders know their mounts owe them no allegiance. Even a mantis ridden for years would consume a rider who loses focus for only a moment. , "Be fearless, for a furious rebirth awaits you."
—Nylea, god of the hunt , "Why does everything the Golgari touch end up sticky?"
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct , Neither hostile nor friendly, pixies flit through the forest seeking the treasures of the wilds. , They both hunger for battle. , Maralen sent Veesa, Endry, and Iliona—the Vendilion clique—on the gravest of tasks. , The currents of the Marang wash away both tracks and blood. , The gurgling of the Marang conceals both footsteps and screams. , A sharp axe solves most problems. , "The vampires never had gods. We followed our bloodchiefs. Now they are gone. What is left? Destruction and death, my friends. That is enough." , With the Hekma destroyed, the wandering dead that sought entrance to Naktamun had free rein to lay waste to the city. , "They ride our trails as if they were designed to," said the guard. "They were," replied Gerrard. , "I'll be taking that." , "It's not just you. Everyone makes it angry."
—Ardenoth, elvish nature advocate , "Stand still and try not to look like prey!"
—Skerk Hobnett, wilderness guide , "I have no master. I am chaos."
—Maraxus of Keld , The cup was a gift from the sphinx Tameron, who hoped that those who drank from it would live long enough to decrypt the sphinxes' wisdom. , The essence of sunlight to brighten the way. , It entered the temple with all the pomp and decorum of a rock hitting a goblin's skull. , "Those who seize power must have the means to hold it."
—Queen Marchesa , "The Black Rose doesn't tolerate weeds." , "Secrets, like coins, are easy to steal." , "Watch your head . . . and your back." , They came from all walks of life, from every part of Zendikar, and they returned with one unifying cause. , "Our forces number more than the leaves of Vitu-Ghazi. Do not provoke us." , The Returned have no memory of the Underworld or of their former lives. The golden masks they wear are the last gifts of the selves they left behind. , Speed to strike, fury to smash. , "Make sure he's pointed in the right direction before you light him. And don't let the goblins anywhere near the torch."
—Kerai Suddenblade, Mardu hordechief , "There may be little honor in my tactics, but there is no honor in losing." , "Those who have never ridden before the wind do not know the true joy of war." , The horde grows with each assault. , The most ferocious saddlebrutes lead the assault, ramming through massed pikes and stout barricades as if they were paper and silk. , The Mardu all enjoy war, but only the goblins make a game of it. , "No body can contain so much fury. It reminds me of another battle, long past."
—Sarkhan Vol , "Those who died in battle deserve their rest." , Marhault Elsdragon follows a strict philosophy, never letting emotions cloud his thoughts. No chance observer could imagine the rage in his heart. , "Cast off the law! Awaken your rage!" , "Looks like we're completely outnumbered."
"Lucky for us. I thought we'd be bored." , To stand as a guardian of the sea, one must possess the resolve of a mounting wave. , Stand your post for duty. Stand your ground for honor. , In case of emergency, crush bug. , Commerce is always the basis for peace. , Everyone roots for the little guy, but nobody bets on him. , A paragon of honor, Galo Aher fell to a blast of fire. The Order of the White Orchid was so saddened that they forged a new sigil in his likeness. , Tharashk the Bold suddenly wasn't himself. Or anyone else, for that matter. , Many Keldon warriors bear the mark of intentional insanity. , The flame of anger is hard to douse once lit. , "As more oni walked Kamigawa, more darkness infested its inhabitants' souls."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , "My 'condition' is a trial. The weak are consumed by it. The strong transcend it."
—Sorin Markov , "Mortals practice swordplay for a few decades at best. How can they ever attain the exquisite mastery that eternity has to offer?" , The surviving members of the Markov bloodline drove through a crush of horrors to reclaim their ancestral home. , The destruction of Markov Manor made the surviving members of the bloodline more dangerous. , Vampires of the Markov bloodline pride themselves on their exquisite taste in fashion, art, and "wine of the vein." , "What use is a stake or holy symbol in the hands of a coward?" , No two see the same Maro. , "No matter how far we push into Stensia, undeath will always remain in these lands."
—Terhold, archmage of Drunau , Marrow-Gnawer united three nezumi gangs when he slew their leaders in a single night. Now they call him their first lord. , "We are a single entity. Dissenters must be sutured into the Orthodoxy."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite , Though a powerful constrictor, it prefers simply to drown its prey. , When giants rise from their long slumbers, they rarely remember how fragile the waking world can be. , "Comes right outta th' ground. If ya can smell it, it's too late."
—Keevy Bogsbury , Even the other Goblin races shun the Marsh Goblins, thanks to certain unwholesome customs they practice. , Now vengeance is his sole purpose. , From the mists it rises, into the mists it retreats; through the mists it walks, fearless and unseen. , A favorite of Erebos, for it has sent many to the Underworld. , "Give me a sturdy rope over the advice of any so-called expert. I can thread the dark wilds better than anyone." , "And the seraphs sob at vermin fangs In human gore imbued."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The Conqueror Wurm" , Their war forgotten, the nations of Bant stood united in the face of a common threat. , "Yes, Boros tactics are unparalleled. But when your comrades are dying around you, inner strength must carry the day."
—Gideon Jura, to Aurelia , "The good of society matters much more than the inconvenience of a few."
—Agmand Sarv, Azorius hussar , "Martyrs are cheaper than mercenaries, and a far better investment."
—General Varchild , Rakdos cultists hanged her for sport in the township square. Her ghost now stands vigil at what has become known as the Tree of Weeping. , "If I am to die in service, there is no more worthy fight than this." , She turns ash into flame and burns enemies to ash. , Puppeteered by Heidar's icy hand, they were sacrificed to the Frost Marsh to raise Haakon's army. , "Should I fall, take up our standard and carry on. The Legion must always prevail." , "Do not call the Balduvians barbaric. Their magic is as potent as it is primal."
—Zur the Enchanter , "Only in our vulnerability is there true power, and that power is life itself." , "Weep not for me. I will rise with the spring's new growth." , "Our lives are connected by divine law. The truth of this will be made evident in time."
—Zedruu the Greathearted , Dying is a soldier's talent. , "It is only fitting that one such as I should die in pursuit of knowledge."
—Vervamon the Elder , Honor the brave who fought,
Honor the dead who fell,
Honor the world they saved.
—Memorial inscription , Midwife to mothers and leader to all. , Konda's servants dared not neglect their duties for a moment under Masako's icy gaze, knowing that what she saw, Lord Konda would hear. , "Beauty determines value, and we determine beauty." , Her footsteps are whispers, her passage a last breath. , It hides the face and protects the soul. , The archangels zealously drove Serra's light into every corner of their new home as if their creator still commanded them. , "We have emerged triumphant from the darkness. Let our hard-won wisdom guide us to prosperity." , The dead serve as their own tombstones. , Transformed from brute to cute. , The sooner you see the whites of their eyes, the sooner you'll spill the red of their blood. , "The Boros lack vision. Give them a convenient scapegoat and they'll be blind to the true threats."
—Lazav , Those who cross the Dimir find enemies everywhere they turn. , "What say you, my most trusted advisors? . . . Advisors?"
—Edra, merfolk sovereign , "An army has filled the valley, but it's not like any army I've ever seen. There are no tents, no fires, no horses . . . just a sea of bodies, writhing and moaning, as if a pestilent village were sent to invade us."
—Onean scout , It takes a remarkable cleric to turn a group of healers into a hospital. , "Nature is a wonderful engineer but works far too slowly for my tastes." , "A skilled decoy can throw your enemies off your trail. A master decoy can survive to do it again."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight , Behind his eyes is the pain of every soldier his hands have healed. , Another piece of a nefarious puzzle. , "Being the best usually means proving it to everyone."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , Choose your battles carefully. For example, avoid the big guy. , "Only a mind unfettered with the concerns of the flesh can see the world as it truly is." , Designed by David Sirlin , Any pleasure, when taken to excess, becomes torment. It's a formula that demons have perfected. , "Let the land dwellers know the coast is no longer the border between our realms. A new age of empire has begun." , The need to obey was inscribed on every plate in their bodies. , With Phyrexia's victory at hand, each sect began perfecting its vision. , "The Way has no beginning and no end. It is simply the path."
—Narset, khan of the Jeskai , Possession is ten-tenths of the law. , "Wasted potential surrounds us. Lend me that bauble, and let me see what it can be made to be." , "Let us never forget the joy that lies at the heart of invention." , "The crucible yields what you have forged in your mind. You need only reach in and draw the masterwork forth."
—Wahara, Keeper of the Crucible , "In the waning moments of war, humanity's most ancient ancestors return. But whose side shall they make their own?"
—Isao, Enlightened Bushi , When outsiders interrupted the matca championship, things got ugly. , "All will know of your crimes." , Some potmakers claim to use the mud of such creatures to make their finest bowls—and that the bowls scream when fired. , "Knock, knock . . . too late." , "Nice invention there. Looks real fragile." , "Ghoulcallers trying to get in, geists trying to get out . . . . This duty is never dull." , When he reaches for his key ring, you should be running for the exit. , In the rapture of his Blood Fast, he destroyed the navigator's tools and steered the ship to shore by faith alone. , From its maw comes neither word nor whisper—only wind. , "The Eldrazi make worse than ruins—they make a world where not even ruins stand."
—Gideon Jura , As the chapel was dragged under, the bell in the tower rang until the murky depths forever silenced its toll. , The devout sacrifice themselves to it hoping for escape from their debts to the guild, but many end up owing in the afterlife. , The sacred Anima's eyes are blind to all but the grandest truths. , Despite their stake in the city's survival, Rakdos cultists are loath to pass up any opportunity to sow chaos. , undefined , It returned to the leylines as quickly as it had appeared, leaving only broken bodies to mark its passage. , The pattern of the Implicit Maze extends in more than two dimensions. , "The maze seems to fight us at every turn, resisting our efforts to solve it."
—Niv-Mizzet , The route has been known for millennia, but only by those with no means to tell it. , The clicks and buzz of the undercity proclaim him the incarnation of decay. , The river split into many channels as it flowed to the Halimar Sea. Few travelers could follow the same one twice. , "Give me eight walkers, I'll give you the city."
—Dovin Baan , Strength may win the fight, but style wins the crowd. , These kids know their four-letter words. , "This violent wasteland is an indictment of its people. These cowards lack the will to oppose disorder." , "My medicine bag and I have treated countless wounds and illnesses. But never have I seen so many made so sick for so long. We will *never* eat Squee's cooking again."
—Orim, journal , Elvish healers carry vials of the balm known as dawnglow, reserving it for those wounds that herbs cannot treat. , "Part of me believes that Barrin taught me meditation simply to shut me up."
—Ertai, wizard adept , Find your center, and you will find your way. , The bigger they are, the stronger its pull. , Even the thrums, the lowliest of slivers, become deadly in its presence. , In an ironic bit of evolution, the megatog's dozens of teeth are mainly ornamental. It prefers swallowing things whole. , When the shards merged, Mayael found herself the general of Naya's mightiest army. , "It's a vicious circle. Stress breeds pain. Pain breeds stress. It's simply beautiful, wouldn't you agree?"
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus , It's dangerous indeed to be lost in someone else's thoughts. , Like a laughing knife, immaculate and sharp, is the Melesse. , "Every object has an echo in the Æther beyond the world. Every idea has a shadow that can be brought to light." , Her warriors are the last defense against the coming storm. , Once a pariah, now Mirrodin's greatest hope. , He loved his cities in the clouds. When he traveled to the lands below, he brought many reminders of his home. , Catastrophes happened so often at the mana rig that the viashino language had a special word to describe them. , "Who needs the sun when you've got me around?"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage , Just as the most finely wrought metal can warp and rust, so too does Mirrodin buckle under pressures from without and within. , In the blur between metal and flesh, Memnarch found madness. , Reminders of Memnarch's reign still skirr across Mirrodin, reminiscent of his form if not his power. , "You claim wisdom, yet I see nothing in here but tawdry wishes." , Hues of recollection flicker like facets of a gem. , Alythos sat and stared blankly out over the glassy oceans of Nerono, trying in vain to remember what he knew he had forgotten. , "The Filigree Texts do not compel you to act in accordance with their precepts. They only specify the consequences should you fail."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn , What a lonely agony, the memory of memories lost. , "By halves does youth depart. I remember halves of names, halves of years, halves of myself."
—Ogaro, wandering sage , "Vengeance is the echo of the victim's own crime."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat , In the wilds, the ravens steal far more than baubles. , "The wild are neither your thralls nor your amusement." , "I can staunch their blood, mend their flesh, and knit their bones. But I cannot restore their hope."
—Tender-Hand, kitsune healer , "The gift of life must be freely given. Anything less would diminish us all."
—Arin, Selesnya healer , The stubborn Meng Huo was captured and released by Kongming seven times before finally surrendering. , Through his allies, Meng Huo commanded several hundred thousand troops composed of cavalry, rattan-armored warriors, infantry, naked men with swords, and wild animals. , "His mind is feeble. Feed him to the bats." , Barrin drowned his doubts about Urza's project by delving ever deeper into its details. , "Your first mistake was thinking I would let you live long enough to make a second."
—Sarnvax, Gitaxian sective , Some minds are more open than others. , "In these halls there is no pass or fail. Your true test comes with the first full moon." , In Mephidross, refuse doesn't last long—it's all scavenged, reanimated, or consumed. , Ravnica's safest strongholds are often neither. , One may as well chart the clouds as try to map Mercadia. , With an explosion that shook the foundation of the city, the *Weatherlight* burst from the underground hangar. , "Blasted amateurs! Doesn't the queen think we can fight well enough on our own?"
—Avram Garrisson, Leader of the Knights of Stromgald , The problem with rebels is that they so quickly reject authority. , To scrape out a living in Aphetto, wizards are reduced to selling rumors, lies, forgeries, or—if they get desperate enough—the truth. , "Buying old, worn-out junk. Selling marvels of real value." , "Tell you what, you keep the rope." , Lat-Nam wizards trade knowledge on scrolls made of magic so they can better guard against thieves and spies. , "If you can build it, we can move it."
—Bes Tavani, Bomat merchant , "My work here is complete. The people have done everything required of them."
—Nicol Bolas , "I once saw the Obzedat moved to action. Since that day, I've been thankful that they're mainly lazy, and dead."
—Aurelia, to Gideon Jura , He enjoys his work, for he sees only the worst Abzan criminals: those who betray their own kin. , "My mind is the calm in the midst of the storm, and my javelin the lightning." , "You sought to anger me, Nahiri. Soon you will see how well you have succeeded." , What some see as "distracted" is really "fathoming the unfathomable." , "Procedural misstep: provocation of geists for the purpose of yielding more energy can compromise containment units. Next action: clean up mess."
—Laboratory notes , The king went off to find himself. Imagine his terror when he succeeded. , "We will give you the peace you seek, though you may not yet know you seek it." , "For generations, we have bred and trained falcons for expeditions into Emeria. Now more sky ruins open themselves to those with the means to reach the heights!" , Merfolk don't always know what they're looking for, but they're certain once they find it. , "Don't you think if I saw a half-woman, half-fish with three glowing eyes, I'd have remembered?"
—Drugo, town guard , "The mist clothes us when we are bare, hides us when we are alone, and unites us when we are together."
—Nirit of Pashona's band , "The structure gets bigger every hour, with hedrons coalescing even deep under the surface. If I could only get inside . . . ." , When giant sinkholes opened across Ravnica, they revealed buried oceans and the merfolk, once thought to be extinct. , "The merfolk of the Pearl Trident have risen from the waves since the earliest days, at times allies to humans, other times enemies. Now their power is cresting again, and who can say which way the new tide will flow."
—Kalis, Onean scholar , "Turn your back for a second and they just vanish! As if they weren't shifty enough before."
—Rhirhok, goblin archer , "Do they seek knowledge or wealth? Are they bandits or benefactors? It depends on who is chanting the tale."
—Nikou, Joraga bard , Merfolk curiosity usually has dire consequences, but rarely for the merfolk. , The sea leaves no room for tears.
—Zhalfirin adage , "Emeria is a pleasant lie, a figment to hide Emrakul's hideous face. I can only hope to uncover a truth that lies deeper still." , "Be like the sea: flow around that which is unmovable; for everything else, crash into it unrelentingly." , "Blasted fishtails! It's not enough that they meddle with my head, but they twist my body as well."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight* , "As much as I hate water, I *do* love fish . . . ."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , Saved from destruction by one planeswalker's sacrifice, the Eliterate colony forswore the taking of life. , Banished to the Dark Meanders for hideous crimes, some merrows find a taste for the darkness . . . and the dead. , Schools meet and mingle on Lorwyn's riverways. In the bustling interplay, the merrow renew their sense of community as they sharpen their wits and hone their trading skills. , Grimeblotters spend so much time in the Dark Meanders that they're able to bring a piece with them wherever they go. , He fancies himself a master thief, claiming to "steal the ground" from his victims. , Steady and silent as the deep current, the reejerey guides the course of the school. , The merrows' prey have retreated from the shore, so they have learned to follow. , "The world above the waterline must be monitored—and, when necessary, adjusted." , "Lo lord of layers proudly comb-crested
Hero to hens father to feathers
Crowing sun-caller weaver of wattle
Elder to eggs."
—*Rooster Saga* , "Scholars seek to understand the way the world is. I wish to shape the world into what it should be." , "The faith of Serra is borne on wings of hope."
—Gulsen, abbey matron , Its ferocity is tempered by patience, knowing it must wait for just the right moment to strike a killing blow. , Before a woman marries in the village of Sursi, she must visit the land of the mesa pegasus. Legend has it that if the woman is pure of heart and her love is true, a mesa pegasus will appear, blessing her family with long life and good fortune. , The unicorns of Sursi are a manifestation of Serra's joy and compassion. They frolic and dance like children, offering blessings to anyone they encounter. , A step in one direction is two steps away from another. , "Magic overused can freeze the mind. Creativity is more important than power."
—Zur the Enchanter , The more important the message, the larger the messenger. , So many aven had died scouting the distant fronts that the knight-captains recruited Nayan falcons as couriers. , "He outran arrows. He outran even the archers' insults."
—Bayma, storyteller of Lagonna Band , The Auriok have fought the metal hordes for so long now that knowing how to cripple them has become an instinct. , "All will be reforged in the fires of glory."
—Urabrask the Hidden , "Too little, too late. The machine is in motion."
—Tezzeret , When the clever counterfeit was accepted by the hive, Volrath's influence upon the slivers grew even stronger. , "By the time I got there, the heart had stopped. Fortunately, I was able to replace it with something better." , "At this rate I fully expect to be replaced by a clockwork golem by year's end."
—Barrin , Only a handful have seen it transform. Or, from the wurm's perspective, only a mouthful. , If it's not one thing, it's another. , If the eyes are windows to the soul, their souls are not of this world. , Just as Serra crafted angels of light and faith, Urza constructed an army of sorcery and power to resist the coming invasion. , "Rise, metathran. You shall serve a nobler cause in death."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general , "Behold astronomy's contribution to war."
—Fennor Rhyl, starcaller , Legend has it that meteor craters are haunted by the ghosts of those who died on impact. , The impact sent the soldiers scattering—then something came out of the crater. , "And if I'm lying," he began . . . , "Eenie, meenie, minie, moe . . . oh, why not all of them?"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , The storm wasn't an omen. It was the fulfillment of one. , "Well, if that goblin didn't want his tongue pierced, he shouldn't have stuck it out at me." , Its breath doesn't assault the senses. It pollutes the mind. , "Watch over my father. Tell him I'm safe, but I won't come home until I find out how to bring him back to his senses, and Kamigawa is again at peace."
—Michiko Konda, last letter to General Takeno , Many have heard the beginning of its low, sustained shriek but few the end. , "Not all mortals fought the kami. The ogres revered the oni, while some humans made pacts based upon empty promises."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , Avacyn's return did not rid him of his desire for revenge. , "When you're on watch, no noise is harmless and no shadow can be ignored."
—Olgard of the Skiltfolk , The path back to the world of the living is murky and bewildering. A geist may not even realize that it's terrifying its own loved ones. , No one welcomes his visit, yet all must grant him tribute. , Bury old friends deeply, lest they return bearing worms. , "I cultivated my faith in Avacyn despite meager returns. Now my faith is repaid." , An oath of fealty sworn with a handshake. , The combined strength of all five planes spawned creations none had seen before. , The continent of Murasa is defined by irrepressible growth, both natural and otherwise. , May your weapon be no sword forged. May your armor be no metal wrought.
—Elvish saying , "Krosa the great. Krosa the enduring. Look to the forest, and it will share its bounty."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid , The Joraga elves never need ask a troll to leave their territory. They merely grant it their combined strength, and it can't resist embarking on a merry rampage. , "Send a runner to Tin Street, and tell 'em the delivery has been . . . uh . . . held up."
—Bonmod, caravan rear guard , "The colossal thing rumbled over the ridge, tree husks crumbling before it. The ones we were already fighting howled as it came, their muscles suddenly surging, and we knew it was time to flee."
—Llanach, Skyshroud ranger , While exploring the sacred cave of Koilos with his brother Mishra and their master Tocasia, Urza fell behind in the Hall of Tagsin, where he discovered the remarkable Mightstone. , "Let my strength harden your resolve." , Why settle for mere enormity? , "I feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh in the Second Sun, and I rise upon its rays." , "Center of the Sea, Eye of the World, Shrine of Enlightenment. Seek it for answers. Seek it for healing. Seek it and return transformed."
—Scroll fragment from the ruins of Minamo , "I am an instrument of the church wielded against Avacyn's enemies." , To know the battlefield is to anticipate the enemy. To know the enemy is to anticipate victory. , If you pick a fight with one kithkin, be ready to fight them all. , "You've got to keep your wits about you on the roofs. Not all stones are compliant handholds."
—Iveta, rooftop runner , The toymaker frowned in bewilderment. None of his creations had ever sneezed before. , Minds, like mountains, are never so grand and mighty that they can't be reduced to dust. , "We paid the Simic very well for this capability, but we should quickly recoup our expenses in saved wages."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate , Greenweaver Mina and her twin brother Denn lead the last of the Mul Daya into an uncertain future. , Its students graduate the school and enter history. , The scrollkeepers never stepped an inch away from the doors of the Great Library, not even when the ogres and their oni masters swept through Minamo. , Woven from threads of the spirit world, the mistcloak rendered its wearer invisible, but quickly fell to tatters. , Like storm water through the segments of bamboo, the spell followed the links of magic. Then it destroyed them. , "The world, I've come to realize, is a blank canvas on which to paint."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor , "There will be no secrets between us... like it or not." , "Life is a maze. This is one of its dead ends."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage , As haunting as a zombie's curse. , Nicol Bolas gives power to those who will abuse it most. , "Every primitive mind has a motive. Easy to find, and eminently exploitable."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage , "Let go of your memories and be reborn."
—Argent Etchings, plate 106, passage 27 , "Why infiltrate their strongholds when what we seek resides in such a poorly guarded safe?"
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis , "The meal was exquisite. The conversation, less so." , They can map both the cityscape and the minds of its architects. , "The soul is only as eternal as I say it is."
—Sharuum the Hegemon , Centuries ago, Mangara won the loyalty of the Quirion not by ruling their minds but by supporting their independence. , To dodge the unerring knife, one must be free of thought. , Though Dominaria's queenless slivers lack a single purpose, in some the instinct for self-sacrifice remains extremely strong. , Only a bloodchief can create vampires. The rest sire nulls, who become mindless beasts in their former bodies. , Rogue mechanists once rummaged through the wastes of the Tidehollow, constructing unauthorized golems to threaten the hegemony of the sphinxes. The orbs put a stop to that. , "My criticism of the Izzet is that their impulse for learning seems too much like impulse and too little like learning."
—Trigori, Azorius senator , Lyna turned to the figure beside her. "They're gone. What now?"
"As ever," said Urza, "we wait." , Spells of madness often require a sacrifice of sanity. , It consumes any dreams of victory. , An end to reason, an end to order. Forget all that has been. , Many an inventor has collapsed under the pressure to create a flawless design. , "The bells may one day ring as an anthem of our own end."
—Kyu, Sage-Eye mystic , "Your mind was a curious mix of madness and genius. I just took away the genius."
—Jace Beleren , Infinite wisdom cannot be contained within a single mind. , "Ideas drift like petals on the wind. I have only to lift my face to the breeze." , Dark thoughts hatch and twist within the mind, straining to take wing. , "I can't think with all that screaming." , It's a helm that leaves the head at its most vulnerable. , It *is* the thing that goes bump in the night. , "Guard your thoughts. You never know who might wish to take them from you."
—Kalitas, Bloodchief of Ghet , Fragments of thought refract and multiply, surging in a geyser of dizzying insight. , "It's always satisfying to stymie the best efforts of a rival, but the reactions of the Gruul are particularly amusing."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker , "What is mana but possibility, an idea not yet given form?"
—Jhoira, master artificer , "The past and the unwritten are frozen. To understand their meaning requires heat."
—Arel the Whisperer , The creations of the hand are confined by reality. The creations of the mind know no such limits. , The hardest of wizards can have the softest of minds. , "A mind in agony is a sparrow without wings."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , "They share more than their thoughts. We must shatter their link quickly!"
—Hanna, to Orim , Harpies are among the most detested creatures in all of Theros... and they thoroughly deserve it. , "The Keldons may have explosive tempers, but *I* have explosives." , There are certain stones even dwarves know to leave in the earth. , "A minion given over to Tevesh Szat is a stronger minion gained."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , To crack a mirror is to provide an opening for the reflection to escape. , "They are quick to offer advice, those whose mistakes doomed them to undeath. How can I not listen to the wisdom of failure?"
—Ratadrabik of Urborg , As a mortal, Phenax was the first to escape the Underworld. As a god, he brings his pawns along the same dark path. , When it takes forever to learn all the rules, no time is left for breaking them. , "This research violates Consulate law." , Draconic words need not be shouted. A whisper will suffice. , When the price of your sins comes due, the Church of Deals is there to collect. , "Look at that. Shuffling, wobbling, entrails placed haphazardly. It's shameful. Who would let that kind of work flap about for all to see?"
—Lestin, necromancer , The smelting district is home to many who see the guilds as not for them. , After the invasion devastated the Talruum and Hurloon tribes, the survivors began to search for other minotaurs. , "Their only dreams are of full stomachs."
—Kleon the Iron-Booted , "Those wings are no advantage. I will pin them to the ceiling of the Hekma." , The herd's patience, the stampede's fury. , "Those blessed hands could bring surcease to even the most tainted soul."
—Sister Betje, *Miracles of the Saints* , "I am the rock of the polis. Death only strengthens me." , Most mirrors show your reflection. Others show your potential. , "It offers you what you want, not what you need."
—Braids, dementia summoner , The land drank power from the Mirari as though it had thirsted forever. , "Is there anything in Guul Draz that *doesn't* suck the life out of you?"
—Tarsa, Sea Gate sell-sword , Mire slime courses through its veins in place of blood. No sooner does it bleed than it opens its mouth to replace the loss. , Misery loves company. , "At this rate," said Sisay, "the next kavu we see will have wings." , Those caught attempting to escape the Underworld spend the rest of their existence trapped in the Mire of Punishment. , "We realized the bog had not given up a soul but had come to claim a new one."
—Scout Ekemet, final journal , As the bridge snapped, Berko was sure he heard the swamp laughing at him. , Caught between life and death, between land and sea, between thought and oblivion. , The mirozels are the only stars in Rath's opaque skies. , A symbol of what Mirrodin once was and hope for what it will be again. , "Our land will not yield to Phyrexian corruption!" , Accurate information is a precious commodity in times of war. , "Full of beauty and grace, with a predator's instincts . . . Although she wanders, I have always thought Mirri belongs in Llanowar most of all."
—Rofellos, Llanowar emissary , Hanna was astounded. Mirri read every leaf and wisp of breeze like a book of ancient lore. , A hero fails, a martyr falls. Time twists and destinies interchange. , Unaware of Lorwyn's diversity, it sees only itself, reflected a thousand times over. , Only in mirrors do heroes find their equal. , The life of a shapeshifter is one of constant change. , "Share your darkest secret and the Mirror will reveal your soul's essence."
—Ceri, royal mirrorkeeper , Who you are constantly runs toward who you will be. , As the glass shattered, forgotten realities and dead memories came flooding back. , Even treefolk witches steer clear of the unpredictable woods near Glen Elendra. Spells refract off the glamer-polished trees and the eyes of lurking pucas. , "If I had many lives, I would give them all for Bant." , "Enemies can be your weapons or your shields. Simply show them which they are."
—*The Teachings of Zho* , "Breaking it would be about four hundred years bad luck."
—Nomad sentry , "Those who are different are untrustworthy, unpredictable. Put your safety in the hands of your own kind."
—Bowen, Barrenton guardcaptain , It doesn't need a bite. The bark works just fine. , The faces of Geth's corpse-dredgers are disturbingly similar. , "Next time, try something more appropriate for your skill level."
—Barrin, Tolarian archmage , "The false god Xenagos treats the whole world as his rollick site. If his whims are left unchecked, Theros will be reduced to rubble and ashes."
—Elspeth , Some curiosities are best left alone. , "The past is a ghost that haunts you from the moment it exists until the moment you don't."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , mise 'miz v alter. of might as well (1997) 1: to win when you don't deserve to 2: to top-deck the "tings" you need 3: to be rewarded by an opponent's bad luck 4: to coin a phrase that spreads through the tournament scene like wildfire 5: to fling a monkey 6: to split firewood using a sharp instrument 7: To burn , "Let him be imprisoned while his possessions wander free."
—Suq'Ata legal decree , The mourning families of commanders and generals were often given land, valuables, or money to compensate for their losses. , Only when the anger passed did Varv realize he had burned down his home, destroyed his weapons, and killed his friend Furt. , A sojourn through time gave dark inspiration to one gifted young mind. , "Arcum is a babbling fool! Phyrexian technology is our greatest blessing. Take this delightful trinket for instance . . ."
—Heidar, Rimewind master , The very ground yielded to Mishra's wishes. , The helix was the finest example of Mishra's campaign strategy: if he couldn't have Argoth, no one could. , It has witnessed history's most significant events, one incarnation after another. , Though he eventually came to despise Tocasia, Mishra listened well to her lessons on clarity of purpose. Unlike his brother, he focused his mind on a single goal. , "When you cannot rely on your sources, trust your own senses. When you cannot trust those, you must follow your instincts."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain , Even war can be civil. , You'd scarcely believe they could fly until they drop out of the sky onto you. , The feet have no eyes.
—Saprazzan saying , Hospitality is of little concern to those who do not wish to be disturbed. , With matchless stealth, the River Heralds fought a running battle against the three enemy forces. , "Across the plains, farmers who braved the mists began to vanish. Most blamed the goblins; none guessed the truth."
—Hakim, Loreweaver , "The quieter the skies, the calmer the mind." , "Although my official log will state there is no evidence pointing to the existence of the Mistfolk, my certainty is lessened by the cursed consistency of the expedition's eyewitness accounts."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , The fae raised the turtle from a tiny hatchling. They taught it whom to ferry—and whom to drown. , Devotion, the second myth of reality: The faithful are most hurt by the objects of their faith. , Trust, the fifth myth of reality: Every truth holds the seed of betrayal. , Familiarity, the first myth of reality: What you know the best, you observe the least. , Conviction, the third myth of reality: Only those who seek the truth can be deceived. , Taking the form of a junior researcher, the first sliver slipped out of Riptide. , It may wear your face, but its mind is its own. , Fellowship, the fourth myth of reality: As the tides of war shift, so do loyalties. , For some creatures, existing is only a whim. , It heralded Sarkhan's return to Tarkir's present. , The wastes spread as quickly as the wind. , "I can't claim to hunt all creatures. There are some things in the jungle that simply can't be hunted."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , Doyo suspected the boggarts of brewing a plot against his crop, so he scythed away his grain to clear the sightlines. , Olka collected the evening mist for years, studying its secrets. Once she learned its essence, she could vanish with a thought. , Some sky steeds break from the thundering herd to ride free on the open winds. , "I sang of storms, there came a squall. I sang of waves, the seas grew tall. I sang of love, but no voice called." , "When you see a raven, head for the hills. It knows when the ghost-tide is headed in."
—Sved, fisherman of Nephalia , "They can't even comprehend nature. How could they improve it?"
—Venser , Energy surges in Izzet labs are opportunities for experimentation. , "What is it? Um . . . what do you *want* it to be?"
—Juzba, Izzet tinker , Past, present, and future surged through the wizard's mind, bringing a flood of possibilities. , True enlightenment comes not with a new thought, but with understanding of all the old ones. , "A jigsaw puzzle that lives, breeds, and thinks."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , "It augments anamnesis. What is so confusing about that?"
—Perisophia the philosopher , The dead sing their own lullabies. , Before the monuments, before the first trials, before Naktamun itself, Bolas culled the plane of its adults in order to rebuild it for his own designs. , For a ghoul, every village is a buffet and every disaster is a reunion. , The purpose of any moat is to impede attack. Some are filled with water, some with thistles. Some are filled with things best left unseen. , "Come on, it's not even that deep!"
—Gorin the Brazen , Not all monsters fight with teeth and claws. , Wars are won with strength, valor, and numbers—especially numbers. , A rested mind is the sharpest weapon. , Sometimes the strongest weapon you can hold in your hand is another hand. , A single stone can start an avalanche. , "Why is loud stupidity so infectious?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool , They make mountains into mogg holes. , Behind every great mogg bomber is another mogg with a shovel and a basket. , Moggs never volunteer for anything twice. , "They're not worth much, but they're easy to catch." , "Torahn's horns! They've seen us. Now, statue, you must fight to save yourself!"
—Tahngarth, aboard the Predator , "I got it! I got it! I—" , They'll attack whatever's in front of them—as long as you tell them where that is. , Hey, wake up!
—Mogg secret password , Stand clear if he gets an itch. , The evisceration of one mogg always cheers up the rest. , Three moggs, one treasure, too bad. , Nothing makes a mogg madder than having to wake up. , As they crept into the *Weatherlight*'s hold, the squad leader held up his hand and whispered, "Stop, goblins—what's that sound?" , Rage-crowned Mogis swiftly rewards the virtue of brutality. , The more you struggle against its coils, the tighter they get. , "The forests have succumbed to ruin, but the spirit of Krosa remains alive and vital in these devouring spores."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid , "A trail of scrap metal can lead it into an ambush. But take care not to overfeed it."
—Adaran, Tangle hunter , Fortunately for it, Mirrodin is a plane without salt. , "The heroes of the past nourish our spirits by their example—and nourish our crops by their decay."
—Jeddeg, philosopher of graves , The border between life and death is as thin as a layer of topsoil. , "When I was a child, we worried about picking the wrong mushrooms for the cook pot. Now we must worry about being picked ourselves."
—Halana, Kessig ranger , When civilization encroaches on nature, Zendikar encroaches back. , "My mind is the spread of the canopy. My heart is the embrace of the roots. I am deathless Llanowar, its fury and its peace." , "Few can coax the creatures within the magma to be cooled and take form."
—Koth of the Hammer , Life among the sudden tremors and violent eruptions of Akoum demands a healthy fear of both. , The metal filigree in his body glowed red-hot, and his flesh soon followed. , Keep off the glass.
—Hydra warning sign , Lavamancers make simple requests: obey or die. , "Some detours just aren't worth it."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter , It came as a cruel answer to the farmers' prayers. , "Only the foolhardy would venture into the Akoum Mountains without a lullmage to tame the raging rocks and living fires."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House , Some take after their father, Stone, some after their mother, Fire. , An apocalypse in dragon form. , If you can't take the heat . . . well, that's going to be a problem. , Shed harpy feathers leave painful wounds—which explains the harpies' mood. , "We have learned much from the orochi." , Flesh wounds are meaningless to those who discard their flesh so readily. , "The time of condemnation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and I consign you to eternal darkness!" , "My faith is stronger than fang, claw, or mindless hunger." , The silence commemorates not those who've died, but those about to. , "The time of salvation is at hand. Dusk washes over the world, and the Legion will rise immortal!" , It wasn't long until the elves had developed a use for every part of the Eldrazi. , "The arrow strikes one bird down, but the flock remains."
—Jeskai teaching , "Speak little. Do much." , The calligraphy of combat is written with strokes of sudden blood. , undefined , Many matches make more madcap monkey mayhem. , "Belief is the strongest mortar." , "We plant the seeds of doubt to harvest the crop of wisdom." , "What do vermin cling to when all hope is lost?"
—Sorin Markov , "No one in her right mind would venture off the coast of Kjeldor during this season."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , Just because they have a club doesn't mean they're organized. , Poached Rukh Eggs
Rock
Cooked Rock
Unicorn-on-the-Cob
Wormfang Turtle Soup , Gackt came to regret keeping his pet toads on his head. , What happens when a plane of predators collides with four planes of prey? , Get in touch with your inner monster. , "Stay." , "Regards from Peema."
—Rishkar , Life is best taken one step at a time. , The most nimble of creatures, it chases the most sacred luminence. , Diluted, moonglove can etch living tissue. Concentrated, a drop will kill a giant. , Winnowers live to eliminate eyeblights, creatures the elves deem too ugly to exist. , The heron is the symbol of the archangel Avacyn. The fact that such spirits still fly gives the church hope that its founder may one day return. , Once a vision of constancy in the sky, the moon had long been hidden from view by the haze that chokes the heavens. The very sight of it had become a sign that change was in the air. , At every fifth full moon, the Moon Market convenes to peddle Ravnica's most forbidden wares. , Wails and whispers are the only weapons she has left. , Courage alone won't keep you alive. , They comb the shallows of Lochmere for relics of a bygone era. And if they happen upon a lone traveler, all the better. , "As long as Rushwood glows, no life is ever truly lost."
—Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer , "I am that merry wanderer of the night."
—William Shakespeare,
*A Midsummer Night's Dream* , "Their hearts beat, their lungs draw breath, and they have one true form. I count them as allies of the living."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar , "Night wings sprinkled with dust Of a thousand soldiers dead And a thousand cities fallen."
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet , "Let them close the gates of Krov from dusk until dawn if they so choose. It matters not. My fiends shall yet rend their flesh from their bones."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , Members of the elite Moorish Cavalry are very particular about their mounts, choosing only those whose bloodlines have been pure for generations. , It has no apparent purpose or direction. It simply drifts, buoyed by breezes both tangible and otherworldly. , Inquisitors are taught scripture, philosophy, and the fine art of sharpening an axe. , "After Lacjsi's speech, the Knights grew determined to crush their ancient enemies clan by clan."
—Tivadar of Thorn, *History of the Goblin Wars* , The mind sings, though at times it sings a dirge. , "From the damned I make my garden."
—Jorshu of Clan Nel Toth , "Every creation carries a piece of its creators. Their knowledge, their dreams, their soul. That is the best part." , Even the dead are raw materials for the Phyrexian vision of perfection. , Why was 5 afraid of 6? Because 678. , "Let him in. He's on the list."
—Olrich, Rakdos club owner , It's so hard to find good help these days. , "The toads of Urborg aren't fast, powerful, or pleasant, but they have their uses."
—Ertai , "I looked into its eyes, and its soul was so empty I saw no reflection, no light there."
—Crovax , "The Moriok are fools. They try so hard to gain my favor. All I want is for them to die quickly, to join the ranks of the nim."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault , All the secrets of the Moriok with only a trace of their corruption. , The Moriok scavenge for weapons, for armor, for food—and ultimately for their souls. , Many go to Mephidross in search of lost riches. Most end up as part of the cache. , "Let go your grudges, or risk wandering the bogs forever in a murderous rage."
—Hildin, priest of Avacyn , "There's not enough salt in all of Nephalia to wither that thing."
—Ghoulcaller Enslow , "The spirits of the righteous shall rise into the sky. Even dirtwalkers will fly like aven."
—Major Teroh , "Touched by moroii"
—Undercity slang meaning "to grow old" , Ancient magic reshapes the stage into a variety of landscapes. , It scours the hills for living matter, savoring even the tang of poisonous fungi. , The crowd roared, the fighters bled, and the dead piled high in the pits. Only the Cabal could win. , "Such deeds should be common fare for such as us."
—Anax, king of Akros , The Fates tried to cut her string but found the thread had turned to iron. , "Their tears spill over Jamuraa. Mixed with blood, they wash everything red."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , To the soldier, war is famine; to the scavenger, a feast. , "Your debt is erased."
—Hilgur, Orzhov euthanist , Mortipede pheromones choke the streets with sickly sweetness, luring the rash and unwary into its waiting jaws. , The light sigh of its breath whistles through its bones. , "Think of them not as failures but as works in progress."
—Volrath , Dimir's best agents hide from death itself. , His aim is as sure as a mosquito's sting, but with none of the warning. , "Goriaks are as stubborn and hardy as I'd expect of a large herbivore in a wetland habitat. But I never expected them to have such beautiful voices!"
—Vivien Reid , The more you look at it, the more dangerous it becomes. , "Can you feel your instincts overwhelm your reason?"
—Watnik, master glassblower , Lush growth spreads like a ferocious blaze across the Otarian hillsides. , Kami manifest in the form of whatever they embody in the physical plane. Some tower in the shape of moss or bark, while others take forms beyond mortal imagining. , After the battle, an eerie silence gripped the forest. The losers' remains were lightly dusted with green. , Whether gargantuans are the manifested will of Progenitus or simply the result of overabundant resources is moot when a herd of them is thundering at you. , Nylea watches over all the creatures of the forest except the snakes. Blessed by Pharika, they can take care of themselves. , "Ever seen a changeling fly into a lantern?"
—Calydd, kithkin farmer , Even without her, the cubs will always know their mother's love. , "Word to me." , "My family protects all families." , When the night blossoms open, the wings of Eiganjo take flight. , Vesuvio, Italy , Penniless and far from home, many former Yellow Scarves and other soldiers became bandits to survive. , Only the heroic and the mad follow mountain goat trails. , "The Titans claimed to draw strength from the rocks, but I suspect them of some darker allegiance."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , The Yeti's single greatest asset is its unnerving ability to blend in with its surroundings. , Treated with a powerful mix of herbs and potions, its wrappings have a remarkable preservative effect, even for the living. , Barrin waited for the nausea to pass or for Urza to say something else. He waited in vain. , During their ascent to spirithood, patriarchs of Orzhova shed both flesh and emotion. This earthly slag is collected and formed into thrulls. , It hoards Lorwyn's rare sorrows. , Interesting tidbit: Surveys show that the card Ow has one of the most popular pieces of flavor text in the *Unglued* expansion. , Wherever Yanggu goes, Mowu follows—sometimes at his side, sometimes obscuring him from view entirely. , A moment in time made tangible, it has the power to realize epic visions. , The suns of Mirrodin have shone upon perfection only once. , "Unlike Zhalfir, the griffin needs no council to keep harmony among its parts."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , "All animals—even humans—can be herded. The trick is to make them think they choose their own destination."
—Mangara , "The lion drank that lake right up! In thanks, he gave Siti the power to speak with lions and make them leave the goats alone."
—Afari, *Tales* , "Just as some fool said it couldn't get worse, the rats began to show up."
—Foot soldier , Before a raid, the members of Wort's gang egg each other on with tales of their hunger and what they'll do to sate it, each outdoing the last. , To reach the ravine of the Wanderbrine River, they were told to take the shortcut "through the mountains." They took the directions literally. , The oil sloshes against his skull as he nears his destination: the Frogtosser Games and the lighting of the Flaming Boggart. , "Doing okay back there, Tarv? Tarv?" , Scream: muffled. Pockets: emptied. Neck function: never the same again. , The land knows no difference between the graves of commoners and nobles. , "My child grew from rot and ruin, yet she bloomed."
—Multani , "To make peace with the forest, make peace with me."
—Multani, to Urza , "This is my place of power. Nothing can take root here unless I allow it."
—Multani, maro-sorcerer , "Welcome to paradise." , When a tree falls in the forest, Multani hears it. , "It appears some mummies have begun to observe a hierarchy all their own."
—Elekh, vizier of embalming , "Do not let yourselves fall now. Zendikar is depending on us—on you!" , "Our buried kings silently await the revolt of dead peasants."
—Tuwile, mundungu of Aku , Cities have crumbled under its weight. , When dealing with goblins, if it isn't nailed down, it's headed your way. , Some mages forsake their scrolls and libraries to learn at the feet of ancient trees and sacred stones. , The loss of its hunting grounds made it all the more dangerous. , Some adventuring parties are made up of old friends, their common bonds bolstering them in the face of peril. Other parties simply hire the biggest, meanest muscle they can find. , "Fire is my accomplice. For enough coin, it can be yours as well." , "If you're not prepared to fight, you'd best be prepared to die." , Few other creatures so closely embody Murasa's rapid cycles of growth. , The seeds of memory grow eternal. , "By fate or by will, every reign must come to an end."
—Kethis, the Hidden Hand , Though the first who raised it in a fit of passion is long dead, the axe still carries memories of bitter scorn. , "Every death has a web of consequences. Our job is to find the spider." , Even more than carrion, they crave the last words of the dying. , Which hurts more: a sword in the gut or a dagger in the back? , "Thank you. This blade becomes so hot in my hand, but your blood has quenched it." , The blades of a Sultai assassin stab like the fangs of a dragon. , Scavengers are always the first to pay their respects. , When Raganorn unsealed the catacombs, he found more than the dead and their treasures. , If you can see it, it's too late. , Rumors float through the city like crows, alighting on citizens seemingly at random. , "The most insidious thing in the world is nonsense that sounds just plausible enough to listen to."
—Lazav , Like pools of fog that hid treacherous rocks from sailors' eyes, so too were the hands of the kami. , As strong as a centaur's will. , The air was filled with the cracks and snaps of flesh hardening as the new sliver joined the battle. , A composer wrote a symphony based on the drakes screeching outside her window. Reviews were mixed—except among the drakes. , "Sympathy is for weaklings. Whoever survives, wins."
—Benzir, archdruid of Temple Might , Every street corner is a hunting ground, every citizen potential prey. , Some worlds possess a hidden core where life's essence constantly surges. , Liliana developed a fondness for the moment when roaring becomes squealing. , Pirate captains rarely enjoy a peaceful retirement. , Hunter and hunted both died thinking they had outwitted the other. , Clenched teeth do not bite.
—Cho-Arrim saying , "Life gives way to death, and death to new life. Nature feeds upon her own decay."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours , "The more dangerous, the better." , "Ewww!" , As pure mana flooded across the shards, it brought a sense of unity even to Jund's vicious food chain. , "I wish I could take credit for it, but nature progresses on its own, just the way it should."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , The oil created the mycosynth. The mycosynth created New Phyrexia. , This card is named My First Tome. , "The simplest way to plan ahead is merely to be ready for everything."
—Pontifex, elder researcher , Most myr monitor other species. Some myr monitor other myr. , "We can't quite determine what they're doing, but they seem to be doing it quite well."
—Vedalken research notes , One thing the myr can't do is enjoy the scenery. , It knows what you are planning, and does not approve. , Memnarch created the myr with three qualities in mind: dependability, controllability, and disposability. , "We will ingest and remake this world in our image, not unlike some admirable designs I have seen here."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , Each myr was designed to fill a specific role. This one, for example, was designed to stomp on other myr. , A mana well as bottomless as the myr are tireless. , Mephidross gives up treasure easily . . . as long as you take its place. , The Krark Clan enjoys pulling them apart just to watch them reassemble one another. , For the Phyrexians, death is not an end, nor a one-time occurrence. , The Auriok see the artificer as a conduit, beckoning new creations into the world. , Two kinds of myr survive: the powerful and those that stay close by them. , Memnarch designed some myr to follow the levelers and reaffix lost parts. Mirran partisans put that instinct to good use. , "The Roil is destructive, but not random. It's Zendikar's way of revealing secrets."
—Ilori, merfolk falconer , "A good forage if you can find it, but eat it before you get back to the sanctuary. The guards won't let you bring it through the gates."
—Dennae, Savai hunter , For good or ill, most fae can't resist meddling in the adventures of any knight they meet. , "Poor, lost mage. Your feet are on land, yet you're in over your head, aren't you?" , The student searches the world for meaning. The master finds worlds of meaning in the search. , The delight of discovery drives the pursuit of knowledge. , "And *I* say north is where I *want* it to be!"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage , "Curse Reveka, and curse her coddled conjurers. Their sorcerers' school shall yet be ours."
—Irini Sengir , They soar, and the mystics follow. , The gate of every kithkin doun is a cunning trap, intended to spill visitors into an oubliette from which there is no escape. , "The Simic can grow anything out of a puddle of sludge. I just hope they never join forces with the Golgari."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov , "Still the mind and quiet the heart. Only then will you hear the Multiverse's great truths."
—Narset , The sun-hot glow radiated from the druids, leaving scattered metal in steaming pools as it passed. , When asked how many paths reach enlightenment, the monk kicked a heap of sand. "Count," he smiled, "and then find more grains." , "There are no obstacles, only different paths." , "No power is too great to be undone."
—Karametra, god of harvests , The problem wasn't that fish had learned how to fly. It was that sharks had adapted to follow them. , Its fangs are in your flesh before its hiss leaves your ears. , "Magic is my thread, my will the needle. I weave over you as if you never were."
—Poetics of Hanan , "The aven are heralds of divinity. The greatest glory is to join them in the sky." , Nomad youths aspire to one of two roles in the tribe: priest or warrior. Their secret dream is to become both. , The blood of Krosa turns rational beings into primal forces. , "The most unexpected weapon that a monster can wield is kindness."
—*Tales of the Ozolith* , "And then the shadow took living form, and the shadow devoured the man whole—body, mind, and soul."
—*Tales of the Ozolith* , There are precious few names that echo throughout the Multiverse. , "Perfect. Now do it again." , "We must hunt and kill the dragon before it can return to raze our ancient city." , Survival in the wilds of Naya left Tiyan well equipped to win the civilized battles of Bant. , "Blades dull and armor dents. Marisi taught us that instinct is the only thing a true warrior needs."
—Ajani , "I recognize that headdress. This one was feared even by her fellow initiates."
—Samut , "All questions will be answered during the Hour of Revelation." , "The lands of the God-Pharaoh are suffused with his breath." , "This is my world, Jace, down to its very bones." , "Zendikar has suffered enough. It is time, at last, for my home to know peace." , "Sorin, I'm going to take everything from you." , The ancient Planeswalkers Sorin and Nahiri battled across Ravnica, their blows cutting as deep as their grudge. , "You brought this upon yourself, Sorin!" , "Wave-borne, he watches over secrets of the shore."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet , Made strong by reckless magic. Made horrid by reckless strife. , These small but intelligent Dragons and their Olesian allies held back the tide of Pashalik Mons's hordes of Goblin Raiders.
*DragonCon 1994* , Gemini (May 21—June 21) This week is a good time to branch out and meet others. But don't forget your roots. Avoid commitments and open flames. , Just as a changeling's influence can have dramatic effects, so too can its sudden withdrawal. , "Open your mind to me." , "Every seed holds strength and teaches patience." , Unanswered prayers are themselves answers.
—Nantuko teaching , Plant a field with wishes, and you will grow more wishes.
—Nantuko teaching , "The soul sheds light, and death is its shadow. When the light dims, life and death embrace."
—Nantuko teaching , That which grows without roots cannot be uprooted.
—Nantuko teaching , In life, the nantuko study nature by revering it. In death, they study nature by disemboweling it. , Your past is a map to where you will go.
—Nantuko teaching , "It's so cute when it's sleeping, isn't it? Actually, it's still as abhorrent as ever, but at least it's not trying to kill us."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem lullmage , "What bait do you cast to catch a dream?"
—Ravnican riddle , Some say tales of the Narnam greenhouse are told to scare the children, but every tale grows from a seed of truth. , "I do not need to pierce your heart to still its beating." , He could find no strength left to budge, no power left to fight, no will left to live. Luckily, they could find him. , "In the disarray of battle, an enemy's attack may be your most convenient weapon."
—Narset , "Finally, the principles of corpse animation applied to bloodless materials!"
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist , "Who needs a spear? Ya break off the horn, and ya stab the fish with it. Easy!"
—Kakra, sea troll , A savage hunter with a prince's bearing. , Smik learned the elvish dance quickly enough. The most difficult, yet most important step was to stay out of Nath's sight until called to perform. , As long as the dryads are a part of the forest, the forest is a part of the army. , "Zendikar will not surrender, and neither can we." , The haunted blade shattered, and the geist drifted gratefully to the Blessed Sleep. , "And if you threaten me again, your shiny steel trousers will be sprouting daggerthorn vines."
—Iveta, rooftop runner , "It is folly to believe your precious inventions will endure. All things return to the soil."
—Nirav, Tirahar elder , . . . but the price of Mangara's freedom was Asmira's life. , "Jewels cannot be eaten nor gold drunk. What civilization trades, nature simply provides."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer , "Killing the Eldrazi is not enough. We must erase all memory of them from this world."
—Greenweaver Mina , "Be open to the blessings, whatever their form."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order , "Plant every sword. Embrace every soul."
—Trostani , "The timeless, tireless jaws of nature shall one day devour us all."
—Sildark, artificer of Omu , I cradle my rage even as the earth cradles my dead kin.
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , Nature's secrets can be read on every tree, every branch, every leaf. , Nature protects its own. , "The dead whisper to the living. If you listen, you will learn."
—Maro , The land rises up to defend against those who would spoil its beauty. , One chill blast—the exhalation of the grave. , "As Argoth's last defenders fell to Urza's juggernauts, Titania said, 'Nature cannot be destroyed, only changed.'"
—*The Antiquities War* , Many elves incorporate the beauty of nature into their inventions. Very few capture its savagery. , "Without the kami to speak to nature on our behalf, we must beg help from nature directly."
—Seshiro the Anointed , "Was it something I said?" , The *Weatherlight* can no longer planeshift, but it can traverse Dominaria with ease. , "You won't be needing this. Or this. Or these . . ." , Funded by the Azorius to keep current maps of the undercity, the Boros nav squads survey even the most unsavory areas. , "I have trained in all three schools of magic." , Deep in nature's core lies a potential unsullied by greed or civilization. , Between the thunderous footfalls of Naya's behemoths lie moments of perfect quiet. , The elves had entered a land like an open grave—an act of fortitude or folly? , Lands ravaged, cities in ruins, so many lives sacrificed, and yet there was no other word for it but victory. , "Do not speak of this to the elders. They look unfavorably upon my indulgences." , "We merrows need not be disadvantaged when fighting on land. We lack the vulnerability of those who breathe only through their throats."
—Minnarin, merrow reejerey , "The darkness merely hides the light." , The necratog can always dig up a meal. , Necrites killed Jherana Rure, ending the counterinsurgency. , A servant of Pharika must know countless balms that heal and soothe—and countless more that do the opposite. , Moriok necromancers actively spread necrogen, encouraging the transformation from Mirran to nim. , "Those may be the squirms of one life ending or of another beginning. Either way, I'd leave it alone."
—Rakka Mar , Mephidross filled with roars of fury and wails of despair as the leonin fought to keep their memories from being pulled into the mists. , Contrary to popular belief, it's kept aloft by necrogen gas, not the screaming agony of a thousand murdered souls. , "Forget that which was never known."
—Spellbomb inscription , "My enemies' death yields threefold benefit: removal, reuse, and research."
—Volrath , Zombies and necromancers agree: easy access to brains is preferred. , The experiments decided to perform some research of their own. , It shambled from the cloud of ash and bone dust, undeterred by its own extinction. , "Jarad fancies himself king of the undercity, but he's merely king of rot." , "Ah, I remember my first death."
—Zarkuu, necrosavant , "To death all must go, and so in death lies ultimate power."
—Geth, Lord of the Vault , Though Volrath is long dead, the slivers have become everything he wanted them to be: mindless instruments of destruction and despair. , The assassins of Ochran distill toxins from the remains of the previous victims. , "The unpredictable fae are just as likely to provide a blight as a boon."
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run , His feet buckled the ground, his hands cut the wind to ribbons, and he was gone. , The traps around the vampire city of Malakir hint at the thirst of its inhabitants. , Near Tel-Jilad, the Tangle is almost silent, save for the trolls' chants and the skittering of needlebugs. , "First it was plovers and mulldrifters. Now it's knitting needles the size of javelins."
—Calydd, kithkin farmer , "It's a testament to the forests' devastation that giant spiders now make their homes amid Dominaria's barren spires."
—Aznaph, greenseeker , The first aven scout squad returned from Krosa with disturbing stories. The second returned with disturbing casualties. , The rain is driven like nails. , It hatches with its ferocity fully grown. , undefined , Where the nefashu pass, blood rolls like a silk carpet. , "If you do not feel the thrill of battle, alive like a flame, you will never triumph." , "The ancient kor were a clever bunch with a taste for nasty traps. Spikes, poison, fire pouring forth with no warning . . . I've seen and disabled them all. If you intend to raid a Skyclave, you'd be wise to hire me on." , undefined , "This is what glory looks like."
—Nicol Bolas , His victims don't have time to feel despair. , His enemies wondered if the lich king's brutal death and unnatural rebirth had been his plan all along. , In one gargantuan bite, it will swallow not only you but also the riverbank you were standing on. , Words describing it fail. Pages relating it shrivel. Tales recounting it end. , "May knowledge be our sanctuary."
—Yora, academy researcher , "Some see a coastal disaster. I see a fully-stocked seagraf."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia , "Keep one eye on the cliff road or you may fall to your death. Keep one eye on the sky or your death may fall on you."
—Manfried Ulmach, Elgaud Master-at-Arms , "My drivers are trustworthy. I removed their tongues myself. Any other questions?" , It's not the two heads you should fear. It's the four fangs. , Renata led the best hunters in all of Theros on a quest to bring down the terror of the Setessan wilds. , Khestes the Adamant, the Champion's closest ally among the centaurs, took one stone to his shoulder and another to his flank. He held his stride and his aim, and let fly the arrow that killed the giant Grinthax.
—*The Theriad* , "The first rule of politics can be learned from a lowly hornbettle: it is wise to cultivate powerful friends."
—Pythamon, sage of Meletis , "The chest cavity is cleared of useless meat. I know just what to do with the space."
—Gyed, Vault Priest , Dappled coats become armored hides. Soft jaws become razor tusks. Nestling play becomes the fight for survival. , It nurtures its masters' glorious future. , "They are small, but they always want more. Learn from them."
—Bontu, god of ambition , "These sailors on our shores are like the dinosaurs that plunder eggs from nests. They live on the labors of others."
—Itzama the Crested , It is an expert at culling individuals who stray too far from the herd. , It is spoken of only in whispers, visited only by the desperate. , "My dreams darkened and seeped into my waking hours. Spellcraft and nightmare merged to create this monstrosity."
—Sunniva, witch of Holm Hollow , Four walls and a roof won't provide safety from that which is buried. , These days, some wizards are finding that they have a little too much spell left at the end of their mana. , The wizard's vocabulary of mogg profanities increased with every net she cast. , Though Shadowmoor's monster-haunted wilds beckon, she never leaves her post. , "I killed one and found bricks and bones in its belly. It had eaten a whole cottage, thatch and all."
—Paulin, Somberwald trapper , "The few of us who survived were denied entry to our camp for two days—so like the pox were the marks we bore."
—*Travelogue of Najat* , "I call them 'Poke' and 'Prod.'"
—Chagrach, Rakdos cursemage , "There's no more time for secluded study. Answers are there only for those with the courage to take them." , "They won't see your shadow or hear your breath, but they will feel your blade." , "Why should I be bound by rules when I can see so far beyond them?" , All the curiosity of the Neurok with only a trace of their duplicity. , From the murk of Mephidross to the heart of Kuldotha, the vedalken send their servants forth to gather knowledge from every inch of Mirrodin. , On Ikoria, reactive magic can make the difference between barely grazed and really dead. , "To defeat your enemies, you must remove their ability to make war against you." , Dimir assassins have the precision to slay a single memory. , "By the law of Avacyn, the following thoughts, words, and deeds are henceforth disallowed." , "Now isn't that better?"
—Olivia Voldaren , Spreading a blanket of growth to warm a weary world. , Understanding is a matter of perspective. , Sarkhan wandered into a tomb and back in time. , The Summer Nexus is a holy grove in Setessa where the starfields of Nyx glitter in the shadows. , Four generations ago, old Split-Tail stole a bundle of scrolls from the Minamo School. Soon after, the first nezumi shamans were born. , "The nezumi will do things for money no other thinking creature would consider. This, of course, makes them useful beyond words."
—Meloku the Clouded Mirror , "Some nezumi became as skilled in the samurai arts as the humans and kitsune. Yet no lord would have them, so they sold their swords to the highest bidder."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , "The Okiba Gang! Night-cursed thieves and assassins! I've had enough of their meddling! Triple the guard!"
—Marrow-Gnawer , This is his domain, and while you remain here you must value all life as you value your own. , "My father will be happy to see you." , It fuels its lanterns by leaching the warmth from its surroundings. , "Why do the dead remain among us? Where is Flight Alabaster to lead them home? Where is Avacyn?"
—Eruth of Lambholt , "Not even a roaring fire could thaw the chill it put in my heart."
—Vonn, geist-trapper , "I never had the nerve to open that bottle. I'll bet you're wishing right now you hadn't been so curious yourself."
—Old Rutstein , Dominaria's most ancient evil. , Shiny polished silver can ward off many creatures, but it attracts others. , "Please tell me I'm hallucinating. I'd rather be crazy than here."
—Gorev Hadszak, Wojek investigator , Nightfire turns the greatest weakness of the undead into formidable strength. , "The Wojek defend the laws. We defend the people." , Under Drana's leadership, vampires are finding new strength in unity. , "To evade the brood lineages, one must be made dark to all the senses."
—Traga, Zulaport runner , The thunder of its hooves beats dreams into despair. , That feeling of something on your chest is usually sleep paralysis. Occasionally, it's something else. , "To think some believe it peaceful to die in one's sleep."
—Ashiok, Nightmare Weaver , "Death might come tomorrow, but today—today I am alive." , "One head watches for Consulate enforcers. The other watches for renegade thieves."
—Crime Lord Gonti , The Consulate rarely cracks the coded announcement of a night market's location before dawn, and enforcers are taken care of if they wander too close. , "How can we wage war against ourselves? What happens when the kami of our very souls rise against us? I answer simply: We cannot. We die. There can be no victory in this war."
—Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda , A strong leader means a growing pack. , Vampires think of themselves as the indisputable nobility of Innistrad, able to do as they please. There are few who can prove them wrong. , Nightscape masters don't stop at raising the spirit of a fallen battlemage. They raise the flesh along with it. , "Most faeries are harmless pranksters. Every now and again, though, you get one that crosses over from mischievous to malicious."
—Gaddock Teeg , A mimic need only touch a being to learn its shape, but touching usually leads to mauling and messily eating. , Ravnica would be safer if mere coin was all the Dimir could steal. , Some said killing the thallids only encouraged them. , "The big fella sounds hungry. Let's send him to bed without his supper." , Part metal, part bone, and all death. , "I have seen things that would reduce a weaker person to blubbering and raving. Want to hear about them?"
—Vraska , Innistrad is a place where dreams invade the mind and mere shadows exact a terrible toll. , "Three daggers left in an angel's back, three enforcers with memory loss, three keys stolen from my own belt—and you talk of peace?"
—Tajic, to Aurelia , "We're on the fortieth floor, with one window, no balcony. No one could possibly get in."
—Minosz, Orzhov chief of security , Once you learn to float on the shadows, you'll never fear them again. , "There is one hour of the night even we do not watch."
—Sedva, captain of the watch , "All ends in obliteration—love in hatred, life in death, and light in empty darkness." , "The hooves of the Raze-Boar will trample the weak—and their city—to dust!" , It is one of the oldest nim, steeped so long in the Dross that it has lost all vestiges of humanity. , "He asked if I had work for him. No wasn't the right answer."
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House , "When navigating dangerous terrain, one hundred legs are better than two." , The Free City of Nimana is a great place to recruit adventurers with shady skill sets. , "What goes up must get stuck." , "In the Hour of Glory, the gods and the untested will prove their worth before the God-Pharaoh."
—*The Accounting of Hours* , "A failure is simply another opportunity for improvement. Just wait until you see what I come up with next." , One thread connected all the travelers' stories: the ferocity of the mongoose. , To find its center is to find one's own. , The people of the Sevick Isles have a unique understanding of the term "ominous clouds." , The Simic soon discovered that the sky offered as few constraints on size as the sea. , Explorers may find ways into the Sky Ruin, but they find its secrets well protected by shifting hedrons and Roil winds. , In the swirling mists, you could walk right up to one and not know until its teeth are in your throat. , The rotting metal feeds the necrogen mists, and in turn the mists feed the nim. , It kills with unfeeling malice. , Called "the Dross" by its inhabitants, Mephidross is home to the nim, Mirrodin's mindless, ravenous undead. , As imps they were an annoyance. As nim they are a pestilence. , "We received an anonymous letter suggesting that Kumano holds a secret to defeating the kami, but he is nowhere to be found."
—General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda , It has waited a millennium just for you, and for a millennium will it watch over your descendants. , The night is the greatest ally of all. , The Consulate keeps watch at each of the eleven bridges to ensure that the market remains a haven for commerce, not for con artists. , "Your body is a delicate instrument that tells me truths. These devices help me 'tune' that instrument." , Once your life and all your worldly possessions have been surrendered to her, a gwyllion can be surprisingly civilized. , Nirkana assassins craft incurable concoctions by mixing basilisk marrow and deathwillow sap with the vital fluids of a dozen other poisonous species. , Hate is an everlasting wellspring from which it is eternally sustained. , Once, Nissa selected worthy fighters to defend the Joraga. Now, she gathers forces to defend all of Zendikar. , "The soul of this world is gone, Nissa, and I would gladly kill it again."
—Nicol Bolas , Her connection to the plane restored, Nissa felt the power of Zendikar surge through her. , The evil inside the mountain pulsed at Nissa in a shock wave of madness. , Her triumph came not from destroying the unnatural, but from fostering life. , In a world devoid of sun, illumination comes from cheerless fires or the wandering spirits of the dead. , Niv-Mizzet's genius and vanity reverberate throughout the mirrored halls of Nivix. , "The only action worth taking is one with an unknown outcome." , When it escaped, the experimenters hesitated. It would cause untold havoc, yet they wished to see it in action. , He has no patience for minds that do not inspire him or explode by trying. , As brilliant as a cut diamond, and with just as cruel an edge. , "There is no shortcut to work done true and well. The Creators learned this to their sorrow, the first time they made the world."
—Githri the Prisoner , "A great siege is a banquet to him; a long and terrible battle, the most exquisite delicacy."
—*The Seer's Parables* , "Proud am I, / strong am I, / courageous in defending my children / and fierce in punishing what stands in my way."
—"So the Elephant Speaks," Zhalfirin song , She protects the sacred groves from blight, drought, and the Unbeholden. , Unlike many hunters, these panthers have no need for camouflage. They're fast enough to catch any prey. , Fighting for the right reason is itself a source of strength. , Soldiers will always endanger their lives to defend many other lives. , "Only an animal born in the wild has sufficient heart to be a true Knight's steed."
—King Darien of Kjeldor , Most spirits are chained to this world by their despair, but he remains tethered by his hope for better days. , A living pulse is an irresistible temptation. , The Eastern Paladin doesn't attack at night for the tactical advantage. He does it for the sheer joy of fighting beneath the moon. , Not keen-edged enough for cutting armor, the no-dachi slew by folding its victim rapidly and violently under the weight of its impact. , Jace surmised that they were walking into Bolas's trap. He felt no joy in being right. , Noggles believe that they were the first race ever to walk Shadowmoor. They don't "steal." They just take back what's rightfully theirs. , "It's always funny till someone gets hurt. Then it's hilarious." , Noggles live purely by what they can scavenge. There is not a single thing a noggle eats, wears, or uses that did not once belong to another. , If you can take something from a nomad, it's probably bait. , "I've journeyed across Dominaria. Phyrexians are everywhere. Plague is everywhere. There's no place left to hide." , On the wild steppes, history vanishes in the dust. Only the mythmakers remain to say what was, and is, and will be. , "Only the weak imprison themselves behind walls. We live free under the wind, and our freedom makes us strong."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu , The kor forsake roots for the winding of the path, forsake voices for the silence of the mind, forsake all else for the poverty of isolation. , "We had years to prepare, while they had mere minutes."
—Kerrick, sleeper agent , "More rope may not be necessary."
—Kep, Lunarch inquisitor , As Gerrard and Greven neared each other, the moggs caught between them realized they should flee. , "The soul? Here, we have no use for such frivolities."
—Sitrik, birth priest , "I have a bad feeling about this." , "How smooth his face, how sure his thoughts. I look forward to breaking his mighty will."
—The Eastern Paladin , "'Air superiority?' Not while our archers scan the skies."
—Elvish scout , The song of the forest is in perfect harmony. If a single note is out of place, the elves will find its source. , "Trade my moose? Sure—when I find a *horse* that can spear ten goblins at a time!" , "The woods hold peace for those who desire it, but those who seek battle will find me." , Seton dreams of life renewed. , To his surprise, Furt discovered that the strange creatures were not at all like bugs. , Visit the dead, and they may return the favor. , City air is a constant drizzle of private thoughts. , He wears his infamy like a fine silk shirt. , Gelfruit grows abundantly wherever Sylvok druids live, as if the Tangle knows that humans are not as hardy as the beasts or as nimble as the elves. , "The sun was born within its coils, but it fled to the sky. The wurm hungers for its child, and the world will bear its loss."
—Screed of the Mul Daya , "Our noblest thoughts are our very first and our very last." , "My grandmother had sold the rest of her jewelry long ago, but she left a particular necklace in my care: a golden chain, bearing a raven-shaped charm." , Even the greatest hero begins with nothing. , "The unnatural pressures of life in this city are best withstood by lifeforms that adapt with unnatural swiftness."
—Momir Vig , The quick onyx goblin jumps over the lazy dwarf. , Dragons of Silumgar's brood begin to digest their prey even before consuming it, letting their caustic breath do much of the work. , Ultimately, it became a three-way battle: the land attacked both armies. , Plague and death wrapped in one convenient package. , "The bog doesn't give a stinking bubble about your title, wealth, or piety. It's just hungry."
—Byaras, backwoods guide , "Behold the groodion! Ichor-slurper, oozing fiend. Foulest wonder underground. Grandest vermin of them all!"
—Zalin the Gutter Bard , "Dead or alive, my creations are stronger than Jin-Gitaxias's septic minions."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , Urborg would just as soon steal your memories as your life. , After many years as a lullmage, Noyan Dar turned his talents from allaying Zendikar's fury to the considerably easier task of rousing it. , It loathes all tastes but two: spells and flesh. , All Auriok children know the tale, "Bolgri and the Long Day of Squashing." , Give away everything so others have nothing.
—Brooch inscription , Zendikar's defenders include both healers and vampires. One way or another, the fallen will return to the fight. , Discovered by Femeref mages, the Null Chamber is the ultimate testing ground for the uncreative. , "Those who incur Thassa's anger will be swallowed whole by her waves, or torn asunder by her bident."
—Thrasios, triton hero , "Our unity unmasks your deceit." , The shepherds work in secret, seeking out abominations against nature and returning them to earth and dust. , "Some say that time is cyclical and that history inevitably repeats. My will is my own. I won't bow to fate."
—Volrath , Gerrard: "But it doesn't do anything!" Hanna: "No—it does nothing." , Nullstone absorbs and dampens most forms of magical energy, as well as light, sound, and heat. , It crushes all underfoot, yet leaves no trace of its passage—no trampled debris, no flattened souls, not even a hoofprint. , "Beware the blade of dishonor. It kills more silently than war, more quickly than age."
—Sensei Golden-Tail , His blade carves a path for his people. His words guide them along it. , Can you digit? , The elves alone preserve the few shreds of beauty left. There is no one else who cares. , New life is born within its shadows. , "Those who seek my protection shall receive it."
—Nylea, god of the hunt , Where its feet tread, the thunder of many others will follow. , Nature is stillness and savagery in equal measure. , "I bring a wilderness no law can tame." , Mischief is its own reward. , Born of volcanic forces, it thrives on the absolute panic it inspires. , Ancient yet ever-young, it is wise and subtle—and cruel and reckless as the spring itself. , "One-eyed and frightful, the cyclops
lifted a boulder and hurled it
seaward from cliff's edge, shattering
masts and scattering sailors."
—*The Callapheia* , "Tree-tall giants confronted her, fiercely demanding her tribute;
Fox-cunning Callaphe's slippery speaking entangled their senses..."
—*The Callapheia* , "Storms drove them westward to Ketaphos; wide plains shimmered in starlight.
Centaurs greeted them, offering gold-hued apples and grain-cakes."
—*The Callapheia* , A body Returned, a soul still lost. , "Callaphe guided them into the
darkness of Hetos, the bleak mire;
Blood-horned minotaurs circled them,
axes aglimmer in shadow."
—*The Callapheia* , "Storm-tossed and broken, Callaphe cried out to deep-dwelling Thassa.
Tritons came swiftly to save her, bringing her north to the Lindus."
—*The Callapheia* , In Meletis, the walls have ears. In Akros, they have blades. , "He is Thassa's. I could not sway him."
—Kiora , The gods are fascinated by innocence, perhaps because it's a quality they themselves lack. , "A piercing call, bright as the stars, rang out across the valley, calling the Pheres band to war, to blood and savagery."
—Luphea of Setessa, *Histories* , A balm or a poison depending on how it is administered, and to whom. , "When the beast cloaks itself in the mighty oak, what good is a bow? When the oak wraps itself around the snarling beast, what good is a hatchet?"
—Dionus, elvish archdruid , "Roam as you will, your roots remain in the strong earth of your Rising." , The elves remember every secret path from the days when they ruled the realm. , "I do not know if the forest was different after they passed. But I know I was."
—Ianthe, Setessan hunter , The city is vast and perilous, but there are places where a weary traveler can feel very much at home. , "Like fruits in the field, we will be harvested when the season is right." , "It's only the end if we allow it." , "Until all have found their place, I will keep watch." , "If it means that people can live in freedom, yeah, I'll keep watch." , "For justice and peace, I will keep watch." , "For the sake of the Multiverse, I will keep watch." , "So everyone gets what they truly deserve, I will keep watch." , "I'll keep watch. Happy now?" , "For the life of every plane, I will keep watch." , "For the lost and forgotten, I will keep watch." , "Some gaze upon the forest and see trees. I see true power." , The town stands on his ancestors' former burial grounds. Even with the graves long gone, he continues his determined vigil. , "My conquistadors are never slain, merely laid to rest."
—Queen Miralda the Pious , Whether incorporated into the structure of castles or admired as lone symbols, the obelisks stand for Bant's values of loyalty, honor, and truth. , It is a monument as austere, unyielding, and inscrutable as Esper itself. , Like most features of Grixis, the obelisks that remain from the time of Alara now exist only for dark exploitation. , Volcanic ash-winds batter it, climbing vines overwhelm it, dragonfire roasts it, and yet it still stands as a testament to a forgotten world. , Centuries have passed since the plane shattered, yet the obelisks of each shard faithfully serve their long-forgotten purpose. , The Battle of Tomakul taught Urza not to rely on fickle reinforcements. , "A richer people could give more but they could never give as much." , "The enemy has been destroyed, sir. So have the forest, the city, your palace, your dog . . ."
—Keldon soldier , A circle of light and a word of confinement. , "Indulge the void. Become the void. Consume all you touch."
—Drana, the last bloodchief , The Eldrazi hunger without limit and consume without pause. , It's bad enough to be torn to pieces. It's worse by far to be torn from the world itself. , Trapped on Ravnica with no affection for either side, Ob Nixilis sought gratification in random acts of torment. , His spark lost, he plots revenge upon the plane whose corrupting mana fractured his soul. , Designed by Brad Muir , "I feel their unnatural influence in the weary, weeping land. Do they care nothing for the creatures who walk below their clouds?"
—Eight-and-a-Half-Tails , Here the soratami wove their endless plots—graceful, artful, and deceitful, while the unwitting world moved below. , Whether hunter or hunted, Kathril chooses when it is seen. , The question strained his sanity. The answer snapped it in half. , No one is as dedicated to perfection as a stitcher working on their latest masterpiece. , "The foot stone is connected to the ankle stone, the ankle stone is connected to the leg stone . . ."
—"Song of the Artificer" , The truthful will stand in the gaze of death and escape unharmed.
—Obsidian acolyte creed , It's the flint that sparks a warrior's rage. , After a while, ships stopped sailing within his reach. , "Lizards make excellent familiars. They never know when they've lost."
—Matoc, lavamancer , "The Obzedat have revived you with purpose. Don't squander their blessing."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov , "The dagger is just a distraction. I carry the real killer in a vial at my side." , In every swirl of the tide, it sees the awakening of things yet to come. , While the soldier dreams, the eyes stand watch. , "In its gaze I saw no mercy, no recognition that I was worthy to exist."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent , The odds are good, but the goods are odd. , Trows are the vile trolls that lurk in the bogs of Shadowmoor. They reappear each night to frighten the living and gnaw the dead. , "Fear holds no place in faith's battle plan." , By the time you've seen it, you won't remember that you did. , A heavy weapon deals plenty of damage—but it does have to hit. , "His body belongs to Bant now. His soul? I honestly don't know. I expect it belongs to the angels."
—Rafiq of the Many , All they found in the hunter's camp were tiny paw prints and a lot of blood. , "The *eludha* is total communication, total understanding. It makes regular human speech feel like garbled grunting."
—Winota, heartbonder , "All of Ravnica's looking for you, Dack, from the Wojek on down."
—Maytov , Ogres are driven by passion, rage, and another ogre standing behind them with a whip. , The machine does the growling, so the ogre's free to smile. , "Ate up all of his siblings in the first week. A good beginning for one destined to command."
—Suka, ogre matron , Knights kept returning from Ogre's Pass wearing nothing but bruises, so they decided to just pretend it was on their side. , A popular game among ogres is to see how many revolutions a head can make before it pops off. , Long reach, short attention span. , It took three years for it to occur to him to use the chain as a weapon, but once it did, he made up for lost time. , When the goblins need more scrap for the Great Furnace, they simply let the ogres loose and follow in their wake. , Once freed, the oni demanded more and more sacrifices to appease them. The ogres happily obliged. , "Those ogres who did not embrace oni worship were cast out, cursed, and forced into hermitage, waiting for the day the oni would come for them."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , He didn't have a word for "home," but he knew it was something to be defended. , He's an oxymoron. , She adopted the weapon of the slave-lord Kazuul, and with it, all his cruelty. , "You have to appreciate the genius of it. Why bother building defenses when you can just fill the pass with angry ogres?"
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter , Ogre shamans must be bright enough to learn their invocations and dim enough to use them. , "What he doesn't burn, he smashes."
—Captain Wellis, ogre wrangler , "His tenement is filled with the most vile, disgusting vermin. It's infested with rats, too."
—Branko One-Ear , Three little goblins, enjoying their brew. One bumped an ogre, and then there were two. , Assault and battery included. , Silent as a snowdrift. Inexorable as an avalanche. , The ohran viper is not cold-blooded. Its veins course with the same antigelid venom used to kill its prey. , When a snowdrift shows you its eyes, it's already too late. , "Though I may soar, I could never fly as high as the dragons." , Ojutai spends time at all his strongholds, but he most favors Cori Stronghold for his meditation. , "When I battled Ojutai, I realized my learning had only begun."
—Shu Yun, the Silent Tempest , At his behest the Kami War began to regain That Which Was Taken. , "Oketra's arrow is my spear, and her love my shield." , To the end, all Oketra did was for others. , "The worthy shall respect the worthy. In the afterlife, all will stand united."
—Monument inscription , Only the most skilled budoka could protect the Okina Shrine. Only the best of these protectors took the night watch. , If a land can be said to have a heart, Okina is the heart of Kamigawa. , They function as everything from assassins to jesters in the name of their fae king. , "My advisors recommend I let them eat you."
—Oko , "Stalking hard or hardly stalking, am I right?" , "These kids today with their collector numbers and their newfangled tap symbol. Twenty Black Lotuses and twenty Plague Rats. Now that's *real* Magic." , "Beware of trees that talk. Their words are threats. And mind the ones that sway and creak. They too threaten us, but in a foreign tongue."
—*The Book of Other Folk* , "The jungle was here before any city. It will be here after the last city falls." , "You say you're capable of flying. You got any proof of that?" , "As we muster for war, I have little patience for lethargy or recalcitrance." , Displays of Voldaren bloodlust are not restricted to glamorous banquets and lavish parties. , Last to charge, last to fall. , "Let Balduvia burn to warm Kjeldor's hearth!"
—General Varchild , "My time will come, when life's frantic striving will fade into the boundless quiet of death." , "My time will come, when all of the world will be reforged in the fires of my invention." , "My time will come, when no road will divide the endless verdure of the trees." , "My time will come, when the rising tide will surge above the tallest mountain." , "My time will come, when every soul will bask in my glory and obey my law." , Her prophecies amaze her even as she speaks them. , The sphinxes began to speak only after the Second Sun aligned. They whispered dire warnings, though no one listened. , It gathers against the coming storm. , "This creature has hyperevolved chameleonic abilities. It no longer mimics its surroundings, instead forcing them to take on its form."
—Simic research notes , "The things I once imagined would be my greatest achievements were only the first steps toward a future I can only begin to fathom."
—Jace Beleren , She memorized every arcane text in the Ismeri Library by the time she was sixteen. Now she quizzes sphinxes in her spare time. , The ogres you know are nothing like the Onakke. Possessing both intellect and industry, they had brute strength without being brutish. , If yo . . . ted. , "Put a minotaur at the head of an army and suddenly all the soldiers act like they have horns."
—Gideon Jura , A cleric's true balm is the confidence he inspires in his compatriots. , Some druids nurture gardens. Others nurture continents. , "May your horns get lodged in an Eldrazi's bony face, ornery brute!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad , undefined , "I will follow the light of Iona into battle, and I will know no fear." , Farmhands and priests mutter curses at the ragged thing; it unnerves more than just the crows. , It manifests at wizard academies to siphon inspiration from young prodigies. , When nothing remains, everything is equally possible. , "When I grafted the Planar Bridge into myself, I felt my Planeswalker spark flare beyond my body. The Multiverse was my plaything. It felt . . . incredible."
—Tezzeret , "Take your place among the stars."
—Kruphix, god of horizons , "River and sea, jungle and sky. Water flows freely between the two halves of the world. We are creatures of the water."
—Shaper Tuvasa , The oni leapt easily from peak to peak, toying with its victims, its voice a purr from the rumbling depths of nightmare. , "The spirit of Serra raised Brindri high and commanded her to keep the balance."
—*Song of All*, canto 524 , The last thing to go through the mogg's mind was its teeth. , He cursed the wind. He cursed the cold. But by stepping on the ice, he cursed himself. , An early inspiration for Urza, Tocasia's Onulets contained magical essences that could be cannibalized after they stopped functioning. , The goblet was a gift from the sphinx Gorael, who hoped humans and vedalken would eventually destroy each other to acquire it, leaving all of Esper to her own kind. , "We wield death and darkness, powers that make lesser mages tremble in fear."
—Onyx creed , "So now you've seen Glen Elendra. Take a good look. It will be the last thing you'll ever see." , Oona grants her favored subjects a dream from her own guarded heart. , Deep in Glen Elendra blossoms Oona, queen of the faeries, nourished by secrets and pollinated by stolen dreams. , Jund has little necromancy. Instead, the flesh of its dead gives rise to algal fiends. , As the sun grew cold in the realm, the statue grew warm. , It was a moment in time, cast in stone—a moment whose time had come again. , "When struck, its hide shimmers through sequences of color—a signaling language I am eager to unravel."
—Rukarumel, field journal , Purphoros once loved Nylea, the god of the hunt. His passion inspired his most astounding works of art. , Sentries guard Ravnica's landmarks and outlying districts, unaware of these places' import to the maze. , Some khenra archers fashion their arrows with a personal touch. , The one thing the Gatewatch didn't expect to find on a plane ruled by Nicol Bolas was perfection. , "Once Avacyn returned, I hoped I'd never need these things again. I didn't think I'd be dusting them off to use against angels." , "If you don't have a destination in mind, the route is all that matters."
—Tamina, district guide , It was a night like any other. It would soon become a night no one would ever forget. , When the vaults are empty, everyone is rich. , "I will . . . tell thee more than thou hast wit to ask."
—Christopher Marlowe, *Doctor Faustus* , "There are dark, ancient arts that fascinate even me."
—Sorin Markov , The third time the Oracle glanced suspiciously at him, Starke decided she had glanced twice too often. , "Opportunity isn't something you wait for. It's something you create." , Exhausting a wizard can be exhausting work. , "Defeating an enemy is not nearly as satisfying as watching one suffer."
—The Western Paladin , When Minamo was abandoned, its younger students found themselves thrust into a war beyond their skill with talents beyond their control. , The crystal pulsed with the power of Teferi's planeswalker spark. Had Jhoira given him a blessing or a curse? , The dense jungle surrenders to a lush and lavish expanse. At its center uncoil the spires of Qarsi Palace. , Whatever it is searching for, it will stop at nothing to find it. , When elves find a fount of beauty, they protect it. Where there is beauty, there is hope. , They follow the prophecy to each new prophet, guarding the future from the present. , "The Skyclaves are our inheritance." , "The world was not hostile to us—we were beneath its notice, and presented no danger."
—*The Invokers' Tales* , "I'm strong enough to survive alone. I'm smart enough to want companions at my side." , "I'm constantly amazed by the tenacity of living creatures on this plane. Even in the stronghold's white-hot core, life persists."
—Ertai , The frillbacks of Orazca soak up the sun on their tall spinal fins. They look slow and sleepy—until they catch the scent of prey. , "If you come across a raptor in the city, stay perfectly still. At least then you'll be well rested when you die."
—Captain Brandis Thorn , "Behind the eyelids, a flickering flame. Beneath the dream, a flickering sorrow. Can peace find you in this sleep When all the world is tossed by war?"
—Snow-Fur, kitsune poet , One orb to guard the body, one to protect the mind, and one to shield the soul. , "Your army must fear you more than the enemy. Only then will you triumph."
—Malga Phlegmtooth , Fruits for friends, fists for foes. , "Pick not the rotten fruit, but neither touch the best. Leave those as an offering for our unseen guests."
—Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf , "After the Rising, a treefolk's mind is as limber and green as its limbs, and is at its most receptive to our teachings." , "So they want to kill my men? Well two can play at that game."
—General Khurzog , Blood calls to blood. , "Crispy! Scarback! Load another volcano-ball."
—Stumphobbler Thuj, orcish captain , "It's a thankless job, and you'll probably die in an explosion. But the pay is pretty good."
—Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain , There's a chance to win every battle. , "Yes, the farmers keep our soldiers fed. But why do they have to make every battlefield a pigpen?"
—Toothlicker Harj, orcish captain , "Us hungry, need food . . . . Lots of books . . . . Hmm . . . ." , "Wood is wasted in the dirt."
—Orcish proverb , The orcs' banner sends a clear message: "Stand against us and meet the same fate as the goblins." , IOU one parashoot
—Urk, mogg fanatic , They wouldn't know their house from a charred hole in the ground. , "You idiot! Never let the spies mingle with the orcish regulars after completing a mission. Now we'll never get them to fight!"
—General Khurzog , Every ancient relic is a weapon if you throw it hard enough. , Unsuccessful in their early battle for Montford, the orcs quickly tempered their bloodlust with cowardice. , "Words have yet to halt an arrow." , "Birds reach all parts of the world," said Barrin. "They will make excellent scouts." , "Trained to battle the followers of Tourach, the Order of Leitbur was not as successful in later conflicts with orcish and goblin raiders."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. I* , "Long live . . . me." , A true follower of Tourach took pride in achievement to the exclusion of other concerns. , "Should you take it in mind to ride a springjack, remember: there are easier ways to fly, and harder ways to break your skull."
—Lann of Cloverdell , "My brother, it may now be time to ring the bell and put out the call for aid." , A blazing light to drive out the shadows. , As stoic as the marble halls, as unblinking as the stars upon their shields. , "Shall we turn away a worthy soul because his parents were peasants? I think not."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, leader of the Order of the White Shield , Made from the clay of burial mounds, the face paint of the priests is a sign of their respect for those whose rest they interrupt. , Thick of muscle, stout of heart, and possessing a burning love of justice and the battlefield, the Ordruun minotaurs are the foundation of the Boros Legion. , "My father was Gruul, but I chose the precision of the legion over the fury of the pack." , "Flame-wrapped, she dances a burning swath amid the clouds."
—Psemilla, Meletian poet , "We've stumbled upon a network of caves not on our maps. We can only hope it is safe to spend the night."
—Lost Battalion, message to General Takeno , A dragon's loyalty cannot be earned, but it can be bought. , "Let the humans have their pantheon. We need no gods to thrive. Even a mortal such as I can capture a part of the sun's power." , The leonin of Oreskos are quick to take offense—not because they are thin-skinned but because they are always ready for a fight. , It knows what makes you tick. It knows how to make the ticking stop. , "Lucy, you've got some spleenin' to do." , It's bigger than it thinks. , "The silkworm spins itself a new existence. So the healer weaves the threads of life."
—Orim, Samite healer , "As usual, there will be time for prayer only *after* the worst happens."
—Orim, Samite healer , Inspired by the thorns and brambles of the untamed wilds, elvish armor is both beautiful and formidable. , Masako was privy to a great many of Konda's deepest secrets, and her hair was always perfect. , "Nobody ever listens to my complaints! Not even when I use the listening stick." , Debate rages among the viziers whether comparing the kudu's horns to the God-Pharaoh's is blasphemy or reverence. , "You want to know what we are fighting for? Look at the wonder in that child's eyes."
—Pia Nalaar , "Only orochi hatched from eggs 'touched by the kami' may become shamans. These days, there are fewer and fewer new shamans being born." , "The young come to me, confused. They have been taught to respect the kami, and now they must fight them? I do not know what to say."
—Sachi, to her father , "Nothing is the same anymore. The forests are not as lush, the waters not as pure, the air not as clear. Without the kami to direct and sustain the forces of nature, it's only a matter of time before we feel their neglect." , The Orzhov care not for repentance, only repayment. , Unlike most churches, at Orzhova it's best to pray before you arrive. , A symbol of power and wealth, the only commodities that matter to the Orzhov. , "You'll pay what you owe, with your money or your life." , "So much wealth. So much splendor. So much temptation to believe the gilded lie."
—Kaya , You only need to wield it once to appreciate the power of control. , "It looks expensive, doesn't it? You have no idea..."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate , "Looks like you need protection." , The form of the sigil is just as important as the sigil itself. If it's carried on a medallion, its bearer is a master. If it's tattooed on the body, its bearer is a slave. , A sign of battle, the Vultures circle and wait for the victorious to depart. , Orzhov churches don't pass the plate for collection. They charge for admission. , "You won't be needing this." , "Forward! Let the Burning Sun's light guide you to deserving prey!" , "Any fool can open it. But it takes a genius to decipher the blank pages."
—Kordel the Cryptic , "The landscape shimmered and I felt a chill breeze. When my vision cleared, I found myself alone among the corpses of my fallen friends."
—Journal found in Numai , A tiny crack is enough to open the mind to Emrakul. , The ouphes finally managed to still the clockwork monstrosity by catching themselves in its cogs. , Just call it OMRSTPLRLCNSWMTCTHTALCNEE for short. , "'Invincible' is just a word."
—Gideon Jura , This plague chooses its victims. , "With the drum of hooves and a flash of blades, the monster's terrifying roar changed to a cry of fear."
—*Legend of the Gilded Knights* , The vibrant forest of Peema is awash with aether. Its animals are stronger, faster, and more aggressive than their counterparts elsewhere. , "Push one goblin into sight, an' run a lot. That's tactics."
—Jula, goblin raider , Everyone who could still lift a weapon had a part in retaking Sea Gate. , The wardens watch for illegal tactics and protect spectators from the occasional rogue fireball. , A boggart's mind is a tinderbox of volatile thoughts, hungry for a spark. , The island nation of Jhess is under constant siege from Valeron on the mainland. Riders traverse the coastline, always on the lookout for sails or aven. , The student asks how a spell is begun. The master ponders what ends it. , "Let me guess. You thought I was dead." , It'll either crash or win the race. Possibly both. , "She walks among us unseen, learning from our imperfections."
—*The Seer's Parables* , The Kipamu League knew what Keld refused to acknowledge: the land could support no more. , "Forward! Until the horizon is ours!"
—Khemses, charioteer , Slow and steady may not always win the race, but at least it doesn't end up splattered on the walls. , The truth came to Kumena like the Great River's torrent: the only way to keep his enemies away from the hidden city was to claim its power for himself. , It embodies the riotous growth of the jungle, where creatures crowd upon creatures, where roots sprawl and vines swarm. , "Our enemy is nothing less than the end of all life. We shall not want for allies."
—*The War Diaries* , The decay of Crovax's ancestral home matched the state of his soul. , Cradle of the Golgari's new kingdom. Grave of those who wronged its queen. , "Let the forest spread! From salt, stone, and fen, let the new trees rise."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer , One must reap before one can sow. , "Trickery can't defeat raw power."
—Matoc, lavamancer , "The Knowledge Pool has all the answers—especially 'No.'" , With one commanding word, the spell was put down and a fine collected for its casting. , Nature doesn't walk. , "Some say she hid the sun herself, a desperate act to save it from its ultimate extinction."
—*The Seer's Parables* , "It's no challenge to master a Mercadian." , Saw her coming. Didn't matter. , "Let the song of Selesnya be heard above the rhythm of our thundering hordes!" , By the year 208, Cao Cao commanded more than 1,000 experienced generals and a million infantry, cavalry, and naval troops. , The biggest difference between a victory and a massacre is which side you're on. , "My brain hurts." , "I trust the instincts of any beast over the advice of any human who presumes to be an expert in the art of war."
—Rinshel, elf insurgent , "You wish for me to cow your enemies? I can do better than that . . . ."
—Teferi, second-level student , "Inspiration is reciprocal: we all have a responsibility to each other to create." , Have you ever noticed how some flavor text has no relevance whatsoever to the card it's on? , His goggles spattered with grime and his mouth full of bugs, he tossed the engines another priceless relic. , The longer it patrols the smoldering crags of the Oxidda Chain, the more it adopts their fiery temper. , It subsists on a diet rich in screaming metal and molten blood. , "Ashes to ashes, rust to rust."
—Viridian shaman , Her angry call split the sky. From that rift descended her champions. , The Consulate had access to thousands of innovative devices displayed at the Inventors' Fair. A few small changes transformed some of them from marvels of ingenuity to instruments of oppression. , "Can't a fella get a moment's peace around here?" , The one you see is just a diversion. , He will be your loyal champion, and his pack your protectors. All he asks for is a full belly, a spot by the fire, and all the love in your heart. , Their loyalty is not to any master, but to the pack. , A procession of gifts with no end in sight. , Like the sun to a flower, the adoring gaze of the tribe is sustenance to an elf. To be shunned is to wither. , Selesnya grows its ranks in more ways than one. , Those who expect betrayal at every turn are seldom disappointed. , "Impress me." , "You wish to remember this lesson? I will write it down for you."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu , "It is terrible how one brief action can live forever in memory."
—Jolrael , "For each word spoken, one forgotten. For each thought, a memory rotten."
—Moriok incantation , As the Eldrazi spread, no secret that could give Zendikar's defenders an advantage was considered too dangerous to seek. , "You're about to be struck by a brilliant idea!" , "All kami are our enemies now, A very tough lesson to learn. But it's one that's taken quickly, When you feel what it's like to burn!"
—Ku-Ku, akki poet , The Rakdos make sure their victims remember their pain—or at least give up a little bit of their sanity in order to forget. , Every twitching nerve and pulsing vein carries a message, discernible with the right tools. , The Moriok see the artificer as a taskmaster, forcing lazy metal into more potent shapes. , Centuries of scouring sands have carved and polished the rocky terrain of the Shefet. , It gathers hues from the twilight mist so that its master can paint a better world. , "Blood flows. Blood calls. Blood devours all and only blood remains."
—Ogre chant , "If we fight as one, nothing can stand in our way!" , "The most profound secrets lie in the darkest places of the world. It can be prudent to make use of another set of eyes."
—Sidisi, Silumgar vizier , "I'm not nearly as bothered by being outnumbered as I am by their foul stench." , "One who ruled willing subjects would need no such protection."
—Adriana, Captain of the Guard , "Our belief shall be the lance that pierces Volrath's heart." , For every wound there is a blessing; for every death, a reckoning. , Closely linked to the Church of Dusk, the paladins of the Bloodstained order are devout to the point of fanaticism. , "Daughter, on the day you have killed your Pale Bear, then will I give you your true name."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain , Denizens of Rath had never seen the moon before. It was a symbol of change, not constancy. , "Gods do not sleep soundly in the earth's embrace."
—Mayael the Anima , "What's worse than being alone on the moors at night? Try *not* being alone."
—Nadila Maas, moor chaplain , As it wandered Shadowmoor, it did not remember its crime—only its shame. , Refusing guild allegiances, she fights for those who can't protect themselves. , Sister of Nicol Bolas. Survivor of the Elder Dragon War. The most vicious of her kin. , The myr are like the Glimmervoid: blank canvases on which to build grand creations. , The old Vec tell tales of a beast that fed on scraps but turned its nose up at the lavish banquet they set in its honor. , A drop numbs the tongue. A sip sends the heart racing. A draught reforges the body. , "If we cannot live proudly, we die so!"
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , "Step lightly and we might be able to use it as a bridge."
—Ib Halfheart, goblin tactician , Only Rushwood is vast enough to swallow this creature whole. , ". . . It was Pang Tong's boat-connecting scheme That let Zhou Yu accomplish his great deed." , All who listen hear their own song, a unique melody played just for them. , "If you'd been there, you would've run from that deer, too!"
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage , "What do they see in the throes of panic? I'm not sure I want to know."
—Kezim, prodigal pyromancer , The dogs of war are nothing compared to the cats. , The tiger is always quick to fold. , "Barrin always said that reality is relative. 'The world,' he cautioned, 'is but pieces of one's perception.'"
—Ertai, wizard adept , "There are many kinds of duty, and mine is to see our world grow and endure." , "It contains the wisdom of generations of our people. We permit only a chosen few to don the raiment."
—Imran, Viridian elder , A last wisp of paradise in a fallen world. , "One look at this glorious item convinced me that Kaladesh deserved my full attention. Sure enough, my time here has yielded exquisite fruit."
—Tezzeret , "Keep your pace steady through the haze, lest you step on the heels of your future self or trip the self a moment behind you."
—Teferi , The results of Rashmi's experimentation forced her to consider the possibility that multitudinous realities existed beyond her own. , "Let my lance sing with the voices of angels and the heathen cower before my shield, for I will teach this land the meaning of honor." , "The best I can offer is a temporary reprieve."
—Belbe , "You can't have so many people living so close together, all practicing so much magic, and not expect some feedback." , "There will come a time when the only prey left will be each other."
—Ulrich of Krallenhorde Pack , "Obviously, the Firemind's mission is worth more than a few goblins."
—Pelener, chamberlain of Niv-Mizzet , The mind is perfectly capable of creating its own monsters. , There is no wall that can't be improved by making it taller. , A kithkin doun is not so much a town as a fortress, built to withstand the constantly besieging darkness. Only those most watchful and trustworthy are tasked with guarding its walls. , "Moonlight has a way of showing all things as they truly are—for better or for worse."
—Zilla of Lambholt , "All bonds are parasitic. Only rulership is pure."
—Gix, Yawgmoth praetor , After finding no sustenance on the edges of Grixis, it turned to the skies of Bant. , "Your porous flesh betrays you."
—Fire Eye, viashino bey , Otaria's epidemic of insanity didn't affect certain barbarians—but no one noticed. , "We've been taught that strength is everything. So how can an alliance with the strongest be a betrayal?" , "I've heard of putting the cat out, but this isn't what I had in mind."
—Nomad sentry , He gets to the point right away. , "Punch and drag, Toss the slag, Sift the soil, Leave the spoil." , A finely crafted blade will never meet as many blows on the battlefield as it did on the anvil. , "To the head of Archaeological Findings: The excavation schedule at dig site 93-beta must be revised. Part of the site has walked off."
—Tolarian field dispatch , "Too many have disappeared in these dark days. I am the light that will lead them home." , "It is *not* sad," Radiant chided the lesser angel. "It is right. Every society must have its outcasts." , To bear the shield of the pariah is the highest honor a Boros can receive—and the last. , "To spend your life seeking, only to find regret upon achieving . . . this is the most delicious irony of all."
—Leshrac, Walker of Night , At the waterfall, the border between the humanoid and the spirit worlds was weakest. The kami moved across it with ease and at will. , ". . . and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left."
—Exodus, 14:22 , No rest. No mercy. No reservations. , The thunderhead that leads in the storm. , "My doors are called trespassing, my signatures, forgeries. They don't respect my talents, and I don't respect their labels." , Its wings were only designed to be ornamental, but it learned to use them on its own. , Lukka looked out from the parapet and saw not a monster to be put down, but a fierce kind of beauty. , One wizard's trash is another wizard's roving gang of abominations. , "My skills are wasted here."
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker , "The expected way through the trial is far too tedious." , "Walking the path of the kami only leaves you with singed feet."
—Soratami saying , As Hedrax stepped into oblivion, he welcomed the unwavering silence. , No thought but hunger. No strategy but destruction. , Also called "pathway stones," hedron shards can immobilize Eldrazi on contact. , Nicol Bolas would not rest until he was restored to his former glory. , "Family plots are so convenient."
—Cabal Patriarch , Lady Farisa's contempt of tawdry kitsch grew even more infamous after her death. , To the camp, it was a fierce and loyal protector. To the sentry's youngest daughter, it would always be her "Wuv Muffin." , Many a keen-eared bogle has run afoul of a clever and silently orchestrated kithkin ambush. , "Bant's most gallant knights wear my sigil, and for that I am humbled." , "The best way to teach is by example." , "Good! Now put it with the other widdle bunnies."
—Sargis Haz, artificer , A cage may keep you in, but it does not keep the stones out. , We all know the legend: Pavel wanders the realms, helping those in greatest need. But is this a measure of his generosity, or of his obligation to atone? , "My course is before me. There is nothing behind me." , "In time our realm will shine again. But it will gleam only when we scour away the taint of doubt."
—Radiant, archangel , "I have always imagined my mother as such a woman, strong and wise."
—Sisay, journal , Not all minds touched by the Eldrazi turn to raging psychosis. Some simply withdraw from this world into memories of a better one. , "The Vanished must have sent it from beyond to aid us in this struggle."
—Kessla, Sylvok shaman , "By the tongues of a thousand serpents, this time I do not lie."
—Ahmahz il Kin, Suq'Ata diplomat , "Peace? Its sole purpose is fear."
—Saheeli Rai , "We three, though of separate ancestry, join in brotherhood. . . . We dare not hope to be together always but hereby vow to die the selfsame day."
—Peach Garden Oath , "Early olive buds? A good omen. Flock of crows? Not so good. Mountain exploding? Bad. Very, very bad."
—Hira, street oracle , "They knew Bantau was lost when, to hide the pearl he had found on the beach, he swallowed it—and soon grew wings."
—Hakim, Loreweaver , "'Do you know, I always thought Unicorns were fabulous monsters, too? I never saw one alive before!' 'Well, now that we have seen each other,' said the Unicorn, 'if you'll believe in me, I'll believe in you.'"
—Lewis Carroll,
*Through the Looking-Glass* , Leonin folktales claim it was brought from beyond the sky by the first kha. , Even the trivial can inspire. , Sometimes you have to read between the minds. , "Soulless demon, you are bound to me. Now we will both dwell in oblivion." , "The Great Conduit connects us all." , Connected as artificer and invention, bonded as rider and steed. , "Oh, don't be so dramatic. When your eyes bleed, and your brain leaks out your ears, then we'll talk about lost sanity."
—Braids, dementia summoner , "The clouds came alive and dove to the earth! Hooves flashed among the dark army, who fled before the spectacle of fury."
—*Song of All*, canto 211 , A pegasus chooses its rider, bearing the worthy into the clouds and tossing all others to the ground. , The first Rath-born pegasus was so offended by the sky that it hid its eyes in the earth.
—Vec lore , undefined , It eats what it wants to eat—which is anything that moves. , The limbs of Pendelhaven extend as far as the meek roam, and reach as high as they strive. , The elder who carries the ancestral mantle of Jacques le Vert is tasked with his ancient mission: to protect the creatures of Pendelhaven. , The mages of Tolaria found strange ways to spend their free time. Occasionally they had contests to see whose kite was eaten last. , Devoured by the mists, Tolaria was stuck in time, trapped between two eternal heartbeats. , As insubstantial—and as insistent—as appetite. , Its elaborate designs reveal secrets of aether's flow. , Draped with the pennon of a fallen outpost, the sword came to symbolize the peoples of Zendikar becoming one. , The Champion and her companions marched through the night, but the battle was over before they arrived. In the middle of the carnage sat a solitary minotaur, lost in what seemed to the Champion to be thought.
—*The Theriad* , "Take this item, for instance. How would it destroy us, Relicbane?"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , This cat has two lives and it's hunting for more. , "These kavu are so stubborn they even refuse to die."
—Tahngarth , When it snared a passing cockatrice, its own soul darkly doubled. , Its ferocity cannot be contained in one lifetime. , "Their rain of arrows left only myself alive, cowering within a tree hollow. They did not even come out to loot the bodies."
—Vervamon the Elder , Like being trapped in a perpetual sneeze, faerie-dust poisoning is both exhilarating and agonizing. , "Always a welcome sight breaking through the clouds."
—Talrand, sky summoner , A griffin is not just an eagle's wings and a lion's claws. It is also the fiercest of hearts. , The mask confers both the prowess of a falcon and its loyalty. , "*This* is the place? This map has got to be wrong . . . ."
—Svania Trul, wayfinder novice, last words , To Mirrodin, an explosive. To Phyrexia, a missionary. , Comrades in life. Comrades in death. , When the School of the Unseen fell, so many magical treasures lay abandoned that no amount of death could deter the stream of thieves and desperate scholars. , There are some shadows that even the Dimir fear. , The spirit dragon Ugin arranged the hedrons of Zendikar to direct leylines of energy. To disrupt one is to unleash devastation and chaos. , For the first time in her life, Vraska tried to prevent death. , "We stand between the jaws of chaos and the mantle of order." , "Get in there, soldier! I want a pelt on my wall before lunch!" , "There will come a time when the voices of soil and seedling will sing only laments."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , It removed only one idea from her mind: defiance. , Woodland geists concluded that Emrakul would be unable to warp the denizens of the forest if the geists got there first. , "Yawgmoth," Freyalise whispered as she set the bomb, "now you will pay for your treachery." , Do not be so caught up in keeping track of time that you forget to make use of it. , "Of all the tyrannies on humane kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind."
—John Dryden, "The Hind and the Panther" , The torches and pitchforks were no match for Rebecca's fans. , "There is a place deep within my soul where no foe can intrude and no tyrant can conquer."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge , There's no telling what an accomplished mage might collect. , The fae know when they're not wanted. That's precisely why they show up. , "I have schemed too long to be supplanted by dead gods. If I cannot have this world, no one can." , "Your crops will rot. The air itself will turn against you. You will suffer as I have suffered."
—Karaz, outcast , Its stench corrodes steel. Its miasma sickens angels. Its finality ends hope. , It departs through the streets' fissures with a sound like gravel pouring into a pond. , What walks on four legs in the morning, two legs in the afternoon, and three legs in the evening? , Centuries before the first chimneys of Mephidross belched clouds of toxic gas, only the golems' movements stirred the air of Mirrodin. , His soldiers etch his words on the insides of their shields, their inspiration always in sight during battle. , Every soldier has a place to stand and a role to play. , Create an illusion so strong that it becomes another's reality, and you can become the master of all. , "You know it to be false, but when its claws find you, what you know won't matter much at all."
—Pol Jamaar, illusionist , Its hunger and ire are no less for being wrought of lies and mist. , These beings embody the essence of true heroes long dead. Summoned from the dreamrealms, they rise to meet their enemies. , Within each of us lurks the fathomless. , As insubstantial as fear, and as dangerous. , After his death, the general was reunited with fallen soldiers from over thirty of his campaigns. , Is it an amalgamation of faded memories or the projection of a half-remembered dream? Neither answer offers any comfort. , "Ninjas can run across water, pull ladders from pockets, kill with a kiss, and slip between bricks. Pack of lies, I say."
—Benden, teahouse gossip , "Only when I saw my enemy walk through all my defenses, untouchable as the moon in the sky, did I truly know what it is to be afraid."
—King Ixes , It lurks in the mist, waiting for stragglers to fall behind. When the fog clears, nothing remains but footprints. , Many kami could fly, which put some warriors at a distinct disadvantage. The mages of Minamo took it upon themselves to correct that imbalance. , It died with the forest, yet both linger on in twisted form. , The serpents' dens built into statues of Pharika serve not only to consecrate her temples, but as a hidden line of defense. , "The venom cleanses the sickness from your body, but it will not be pleasant, and you may not survive. Pharika's blessings are fickle."
—Solon, acolyte of Pharika , "If you will not pour your drink out for me, I shall pour mine out for you." , "The direst venom becomes a panacea under Pharika's guidance. I bring it to the worthy, clinging at the edge of the abyss." , "You've never had to trust your breath to an inhuman creature who could crush you at its whim, and I truly feel sorry for you."
—Eagan, seabonder , "Poets speak of your unrivaled speed," the Champion said to the assembled centaurs, "but it is plain to see that your true strength lies in your unwavering loyalty to one another."
—*The Theriad* , "Who can deny the call to battle when it sings in our blood?" , "Flesh and bone or star and shadow. It makes no difference to my club." , Trompers are the most feared warriors of the Pheres Band. Anger is their lifeblood. It sustains them and gives them purpose. , The renowned warchiefs of Pheres Band fight with the might of minotaurs and the sagacity of sphinxes. , This space intentionally left blank. , The boggarts gorged themselves until their bellies glowed. , "Perfection is at hand. You have been freed of weakness and made *compleat*."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , "Unskin these impure bodies, Great Yawgmoth, that flesh may welcome your blessings."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures* , A spark of resistance against a tide of corruption. , After encountering them, Squee finally lost his appetite for bugs. , It reeks of terror and chaos. , "Phyrexia's touch is painful to all but the blackest of hearts."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , With limited resources and near unlimited time, Kerrick used parts from one beast to build another. , "The second stage of the illness: high fever and severe infectiousness."
—Phyrexian progress notes , "The third stage of the illness: muscle aches and persistent cough."
—Phyrexian progress notes , Because the dead have no will to resist. , "The first stage of the illness: rash and nausea."
—Phyrexian progress notes , "Our cause will ripen in the fertile flesh of the unworthy."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , Although the abuse was initially effective, the troops soon became numb to it. , Other Phyrexians have nightmares about the gargantua. , Phyrexia wastes nothing. Its food chain is a spiraling cycle. , Every page cost a life; every secret cost a thousand more. , "They are convenient in having no souls, but less so in having no spirit."
—Volrath , "It is Yawgmoth's will incarnate: an efficient machine that replaces inefficient flesh."
—Tsabo Tavoc , It took the Rimewind cultists days to realize they had successfully activated the creature—it just wasn't interested in moving. , Where nature impedes, Phyrexians overcome. , "There's nothing I wouldn't give to achieve victory. Can you say the same?"
—Tsabo Tavoc, to Gerrard , Being one would be an honor, if the word "honor" had any meaning in Phyrexia. , They exist to cease. , "Behold blessed perfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , "The final stage of the illness: delirium, convulsions, and death."
—Phyrexian progress notes , Only those who have nothing have nothing to fear. , "I believe many worlds will bow to Phyrexia. Mirrodin is merely the first."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , It desires only to help others shed the itchy wet skin of life. , As long as one drop of the oil exists, the joyous work continues. , Death is no excuse to stop working. , "To be in the presence of a revoker is to be truly alone."
—Kara Vrist, Neurok agent , Benalia was only the first nation victimized by Tsabo Tavoc's specialized killers. , Its plow wasn't designed for snow, but to carve a path through shrieking armies. , The Phyrexian minds that constructed it did not live past its awakening. , Living metal encasing dying flesh. , "In your final breath you still have something to offer Phyrexia."
—Afari, *Tales* , "He is Yawgmoth's reward to me. I shall kill him a hundred times a day."
—Crovax, to Ertai , "The secrets of Phyrexia are expensive. You will pay in brass and bone, steel and sinew."
—Kaervek , "I have heard terrible tales of black rains, ashen fields, and metal that screams. I have consoled myself that the tales were a myth of some fevered mind. But today I saw a walker—and now I fear the truth."
—Kasib Ibn Naji, Letters , "Knowing its origins, how could they have thought they could control it?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic , "So even the heart of our world has succumbed."
—Koth of the Hammer , Phytohydras are banned as houseplants in many residential spires. If left unfed, they find their own exit—usually at the cost of extensive property damage. , "Look at this creature, so like the Conclave it serves. Cut one head and it grows two. Damage it and it flourishes."
—Veszka, Selesnya evangel , Its root system spans the entire floor of the jungle, making eradication impossible. , Some find inspiration in their swords. Others find it in their leaders. , Pia's passion was directed at the big picture—at making real, lasting change. , "The clues have begun to reveal a truth I hesitate to accept." , "Pain isn't a negative stimulus. Pain is a sign of your imperfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , Llanowar elves conceal their ballistae in the upper canopy of the forest, ready to clear the skies of any intruder. , "Whoever obeys God and His Prophet, fears God and does his duty to Him, will surely find success."
—*The Qur'an, 24:52* , "As the cavalry bore down, we faced them with swords drawn and pikes hidden in the grass at our feet. 'Don't lift your pikes 'til I give the word,' I said."
—Maeveen O'Donagh,
*Memoirs of a Soldier* , Mirko Vosk hunted anyone with knowledge of the maze, draining the chances of the other guilds. , "I would die a thousand deaths before I let you harm another." , The most skilled Jeskai artisans can craft imposing golems with such precision that they will last an eternity—the time believed necessary to master the Fires of the Jeskai Way. , "A life is measured by the lives it saves." , The kor send their thopter kites to see if the land is in a welcoming mood. , It wasn't really expected to fly. Then again, it wasn't expected to move, either. , "The embers of our homes still smolder, and already the villages of Kjeldor burn in retaliation. What they have started, we will finish."
—Lovisa Coldeyes , "May starving fleas birth a thousand generations on your stubborn hide, cow!"
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad , May the worthy spend an eternity in Blessed Sleep. May the wicked find the peace of oblivion. , "The vaulted ceiling of our faith rests upon such pillars."
—Darugand, banisher priest , Built on the very ground where the Ten signed the Guildpact, the tower is a monument to the past and a reminder of who holds power in the present. , Just because a temple has no guards doesn't mean it's undefended. , "Aku, City of Hidden Graves / Aku, City of Lost Kings / Aku, welcome me."
—Pillar tomb inscription , Which is worse—the sleep which never ends or that which never comes? , "No fair! Since when does a bug get ta munch on *me*?"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand , "Even paradise is not without tragedies."
—Sarkhan Vol , Mount Sulano erupted not in magma but in anger. , "Some solve problems by thinking and talking. Others use rocks."
—Toggo, goblin weaponsmith , "Mortal strength, like mortal hope, is so easily crushed."
—Thassa, god of the sea , undefined , "Ours is the true and righteous path. You will bow before our might." , The Cho-Arrim make no distinction between healers and soldiers. , Every footstep is a prayer, every road a temple. , "If it has ears, it will dance to my tune." , Those who follow nature's path eventually walk in a circle. , When it came to following her orders, it was do and die. , The sea gives, and the sea takes. Some just help with the taking. , Goblins can carry their body weight in loot. , Nothing warms the heart like plunder. , Its hyperpneumatics can punch through a wall and the spy on the other side. , Only the goblins could make a simple machine so complex. , "Even a nuisance such as the pistus fly has a purpose in our new world."
—Glissa , The ingenuity of goblins, the depravity of demons, and the smarts of sheep. , Its material may not be precious, but the minds it protects are. , Each spike is poisoned—the trapmaker's idea of mercy. , "All the coins in Ravnica can't save his soul now."
—Narbulg Nine Fingers , After boring up through the crust of Mirrodin, it turned its expertise upon the surface dwellers. , The fearful want the procedure before a blood festival. The guilty seek it afterward. , "The reign of the Swarm begins. Let us rise now and dress ourselves in vengeance." , "Shame to let good gold go to the grave." , "Pay in gold. Pay in blood. Pay with the servitude of your spirit kin. But pay you must." , The moans of the Death Pits were underscored by the chattering of imps, for whom the ship was cause for much discussion. , "The undead are not 'awakened.' They are evicted when there is no room left in the pit for more bodies." , Sometimes the smallest nuisance can be the greatest pain. , Never forget your feet
—Elvish expression meaning "watch your step" , "Are you thinking what I'm thinking?" , Its respiration is your expiration. , No one knows whether they were named for the disease they carry or for the speed at which they multiply. , "My power is generosity, in a way. I give my survivors an appreciation for their lives." , They're not just retrievers, they're carriers. , "Look at her, once filled with innocence. Death has a way of wringing away such . . . deficiencies."
—Savra , "The lasting effects are invariably fatal."
—Phyrexian progress notes , As the strange plague ravaged Jamuraa, the fiends multiplied. , When it passes, those who sleep dream of sickness and death. , Phyrexia's spiral of consumption grows ever wider and darker. , They watch for a new master, one more sinister than the last. , "Should you a Rat to madness tease Why ev'n a Rat may plague you . . . ."
—Samuel Coleridge, "Recantation" , A sliver shares everything with its hive—even its afflictions. , "Breathe deep, Dominaria. Breathe deep and die."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general , It leaves its victims one sting closer to phyresis. , For some goods, the best couriers are the dead. , "The second wind of ascension is Reaver, slaying the unworthy."
—*Keld Triumphant* , "I can ail what cures you." , Scottish Highlands, U.K. , "From womb of nothingness sprang this place of beauty, purity, and hope realized."
—*Song of All*, canto 3 , "It is finished. Now the real work can begin."
—Tezzeret , With heavy heart, Urza doused one world's light to rekindle another's. , All of Dominaria recoiled as Yawgmoth and his retainers arrived. , Nireya reached through the Gate, sensing the energies trapped beyond. , "Every moment has its own savior." , The Phyrexians don't want to conquer Dominaria. They want to remake it. , These devices have been known to pull entire worlds through the Æther. , "Planeswalking isn't about walking. It's about falling and screaming."
—Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast , "Told you I had friends." , Freyalise strengthens her faithful. , "I enjoy a good joke as much as the next guy."
—Commodore Guff , "I watched a ship sail right through it. I thought it was harmless . . . until I saw what it had done to the crew."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader , "Everything serves a purpose. Even you."
—Vorel of the Hull Clade , "It might fight the Eldrazi, but don't mistake it for a companion, Gideon. It's not interested in your concept of strength through unity."
—Najiya, leader of the Tajuru , "Kor armorers buy the scales and claws. Elf oracles buy the rest."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper , " . . . And the third little boar built his house out of rootwalla plates . . . ."
—Skyshroud children's story , The Neurok buried entangling cables just under the Quicksilver Sea. One seastrider harvest can provide an army's worth of armor and shields. , Beneath the Tangle, the wurm tunnels stretch . . . wide as a stone's throw, long as forever, deep as you dare. , Overcoming extinction has only made the slivers more determined to live. , Most spiders wait patiently for their prey to arrive. Most spiders aren't forty feet tall. , "I'd hate to see the bird that could get *this* wurm!"
—Alaborn soldier , She is the apex of the artificer's craft, the spirit of the divine called out of base metal. , It ignores such insignificant forces as time, entropy, and death. , The most sensational plays send everyone home breathless. , On Theros, the dove is a symbol not of peace but of discovery. Quick wings herald the arrival of a revelation. , Urza convinced many Dominarians not only to set aside their differences, but to embrace them. , "No one hero will save this day. Today we must all be heroes."
—Gideon Jura , The knights are a major attraction at every Lammastide festival. Teams of riders perform daring feats of flight to the delight of all below. , The paths of the kami crisscrossed Kamigawa like scars left by a maddened surgeon. , To renew the land, plow the land.
To destroy the land, do nothing.
—Druids' saying , "It was vast, a great sheet of soaring wings, and equally silent. It caught us unawares and blocked our view of the kithkin stronghold."
—Grensch, merrow cutthroat , Scavengers follow in Skysail's shadow, feasting on the carcasses of monsters that attacked the floating city. , Nails and destruction on point. , In ancient China, not wearing armor could be a fatal mistake. Guan Yu, Zhou Yu, Sun Ce, and other heros were struck by poison arrows. , Some claim it's a failed Simic experiment, others say a Golgari creation. Both guilds deny all responsibility, while secretly studying its strange virulence. , Wells that provide clean, unhaunted water are rare enough to be worth building an entire town around. , "It was big. Really, really, big. No, bigger than that. It was big!"
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight , "Politics is a game—move a stone here, move a stone there—except sometimes the stones bleed."
—Shauku, Endbringer , The mystic bond between spellcasters and the land is just as vulnerable to attack as the casters themselves. , After the zombie attack, crops withered on the vine, and the thriving village became a ghost town almost overnight. , Where dragons once prevailed, their bones now sink. , It always knew it was destined to be more than a frog. , "Ahh! Opposable digits!" , "The flies were bothering me."
—Jalira, master polymorphist , An innumerable pack is concealed in a single reflection. , Tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today. , "Never leave the future to fate." , Some spellcrafting mistakes go on to become spells of their own. , The land can only hold so much poison before it begins to bite back. , "My new design has lightweight plating specially cultivated from heretics' spare tissues."
—Izathel, priest of the Annex , "'I'm certain that the fate of Markov Manor is connected to these cryptoliths . . .' This Tamiyo was on to something." , "If you need to disappear for a while, I know a place."
—Bilivus, master archivist , Nature's way of saying "take the long way home." , Mogis can fan a small flame of resentment into an inferno of madness. , "There may be a few minor additional fees, levies, duties, surtaxes, tariffs, imposts, tolls . . . ." , A haunted fog known as the Nebelgast shrouds the cities along Nephalia's coast. , A stitcher's attempt at a skaab with a soul. , "Its broad claw suggests a chitinous shield, but in fact it conceals glands that secrete a remarkably swift healing agent."
—Rukarumel, field journal , Farmer Brown never ate eggs again. , The drive to hunt and feed is raw instinct for dinosaurs. The trick is simply to channel it in the right direction. , Rhonas's monument is home to a wider variety of creatures than anywhere else in the city of Naktamun—a feature most initiates fail to appreciate. , One pounce, she's hungry—you die quickly. Two, she's teaching her cubs—you're in for a long day. , "I don't understand. He's normally so well behaved!" , "Great peril demands formidable weaponry."
—Urza , Never content, vedalken artificers continually tinker with their creations. , The Forest of Argoth has developed a resistance to mechanical intrusion. , As he repaired the ship's planeswalking engine, Karn saw for the first time how he could catalyze the *Weatherlight*'s evolution. , The cinders believe their flame was stolen by one they call the Extinguisher. All who now wield fire draw their desperate wrath. , "We have fought this far and lost too much. We will not turn back."
—Grizzlegom , "Light passing through a powerstone is refracted by eternity and colored by planar energy. I wonder how the world appeared through Urza's eyes?"
—Teferi , Each individual has their own crucial role to play. , As the Phyrexian contagion corroded Karn's body, the praetors whispered psalms to corrupt his mind. , Sheoldred weaves every thread of information into a noose to hang her enemies. , Prahv, where much work is done to make sure nothing is accomplished. , The continent of Ondu is a vast plateau crisscrossed by deep trenches and meandering rivers. , It's rare that the Prakhata Club closes its doors. It's also rare that Lord Gonti meets with Consul Kambal. What are the odds the two would occur on the same day? , Not a mote of dust escapes the dutiful cleaners that keep the exclusive Prakhata Club immaculate. , Its colors entrance aggressors, directing their violence. , "In troubled times, we all need someone to watch our back." , "Hit where it hurts, and always hit first." , Ral had wielded lightning all his life but had never harnessed the power of an entire guild. , A gleam like struggling sunlight penetrated Selenia's dark thoughts. , "To control the present we must master the future." , Dragons make for spiteful gods. , "The scourge of Skyshroud is airborne once more."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , "And Muzzio says my arguments have no teeth."
—Selvala, ranger of the Lowlands , "Other guilds say the Gruul are savages, no better than the beasts we live with. I say we've found friends who won't stab us in the back."
—Domri Rade , If you hear it coming, you're not its prey. , Those who forget their past are doomed to be eaten by it. , Instinct blood-tinted his world until he could see only one thing clearly: his prey. , Hunger growls, never purrs. , "It is the fate of the weak to fall."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , No matter how much the slivers change, their collective might remains. , "The strong eat. The weak are eaten. That's the way of things."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , "If you need an example to lead others to the front lines, consider the precedent set." , "This soil knows well the taste of the dead. Give it the hunger for a living meal, and it can become a deadly ally."
—Ezrith, druid of the Dark Hours , "Here lies Gond, hero of Safehold Taldwen. May he ever guide our quest." , Peace to all. Peace be all.
—Great Hall floor inscription , "Humbly I bow. Silently I wait. Deeply I listen." , "Show your enemies as much mercy as they would show you."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller , Poke a drake in the right place and it becomes as docile as a pet. Poke it in the wrong place and goodbye, hand. , The surest way to lose your holdings is to plead for them in Mercadia City's courts. , "You don't find many old werewolf hunters."
—Paulin, trapper of Somberwald , The moment Liliana defied Nicol Bolas, her contract was broken, and her life was forfeit. But she was free to choose her fate, and she decided it was worth the price. , "True strength lies in action. Let the weak react to me."
—Kamahl, pit fighter , Enthusiasm can be tempered in the furnace of the earth. , "Canyons in the Phoberos badlands are essentially gates to the Underworld."
—Mirinthes, Akroan captain , "Even without the spines, who would dare to touch it?"
—Desmera, perfect of Wren's Run , "It's either terrified or extremely mad at us, definitely one of the two."
—Jonald, mission naturalist , "Any hotheaded cub can raise a sword in anger." , There's only one thing worse than a hungry lion—many hungry lions. , The Orzhov are not the only religious tradition on Ravnica, nor the oldest. , "Gix doesn't want a people to rule but puppets to entertain his madness."
—Xantcha, Phyrexian outcast , "Even my last breath will be a blow struck for Iroas." , Some will sacrifice everything for but a taste of power. , Titania rewards all who honor the forest by making them a living part of it. , Even in New Phyrexia, red mana sparks glimmers of individualism, passion, and freedom. , "May our blessings sever the tongues of the forsaken."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite , "A might spell can be handy against baloths, giants, kraken, the Roil—or if you lose your bearings in the woods."
—Chadir the Navigator , When nature is backed into a corner, just like its children, it lashes out. , "The power of the woods is only ever borrowed." , "From this day forward, we confront this world together, lifting each other up." , Their calls unheeded by the withered forests, nature shamans channeled the life force of their brethren. , "Don't dismiss its anger as mindless fury. I assure you, it has purpose."
—Seton, centaur druid , "To the unskilled, it appears as blurred patches of distorted light. Few have seen its true form."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , The shaman looked at the world through Ghalta's eyes and understood that everything else was his prey. , "It's strange, but I can feel it when the land is corrupted. I understand why the Autumn Willow is so protective."
—Daria , Tocasia brushed the gears and cogs from the table. There, before two wide-eyed brothers, she began a lesson on raw elemental magic. , Ferocity and cunning accounted for half the victory. Gravity accounted for the rest. , With Avacyn's return, the flow of life became a tidal wave. , Gruul shamans believe all sentient beings have the soul of savagery inside them, an animal form clawing to escape. , It has germinated in the earth for thousands of years. Finally it wakes to the battle's call. , "Look to the old tomes, those bound in hides and written in yarberry ink. They hold the spells that can free us of the clutter of modern magecraft."
—Dravash, dowsing shaman , The earth shook in support of their cause, offering a champion of its own. , Centuries ago, five dragons conquered death to rule the living. , His mind, like his body, is made up of the swamp's flotsam. , When nature calls, *run*. , Ancient carvings in the trees of Krosa glow with power once again. , Though a completely artificial species, primocs are a natural fit for the skies of Otaria. , The thick, moving mass from the beginning of evolution swallows and digests the animate and inanimate as it unthinkingly strives to continue its existence. , For each creature that arrives in its audience, the sage imparts another piece of ancient wisdom for all to hear. , Elite training, singled-minded devotion, and lazotep coating help only so much for invaders who are fundamentally bite-sized. , "There are none alive that I cannot crush. There are none dead that I do not command." , "How ironic that the greatest forge of civilization is battle."
—Mangara , A capable mage can tune its focus, refracting mana through each disk in turn to cast any spell they desire. , In times of portent, the land sculpts itself in accordance with the sigils burned on the sky. , There is beauty in the uncertainty of potential. , "These, of all spells, must have common components I can isolate and use."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran Priest , "Spring in Dominaria means pastels!"
—Excerpt from *Mage's Home Journal* , Even its shadow is a dazzling rainbow. , Wear it on your dominant hand and it will follow your lead. , "Seeing is believing" is a fact the merrows ruthlessly exploit in their dealings with the other residents of Shadowmoor. , After millenia to craft victory, Bolas had eternity to contemplate defeat. , Clear out the cell. Bring in the next prisoner. , The elite of Ojutai's brood, the skywise see their enemies as puzzles to be solved. , "Tools and artisans can be destroyed, but the act of creation is inviolate."
—Elspeth Tirel , "We in the Conclave have a saying: 'When you hold a shield, lend your shield.' The strong must never forget what they owe to the weak."
– Niszka, Selesnya evangel , "Ludevic's laboratory is a veritable wonderland. I have never felt so inspired."
—Stitcher Geralf , "I wrote these tales with a quill made from a griffin's feather. And the winning of that feather is quite a tale itself."
—Chulane, Teller of Tales , "Friend and foe alike are irresistibly drawn to its beauty—the good, to their lasting reward, and the evil, to their brief and painful regret."
—Vivien Reid , The Scrappers, an underground group with a passion for automaton brawls, had renegade leanings even before the Consulate's crackdown. It didn't take long for them to lend their best brawlers to the conflict. , Ulamog's processors trail behind him, converting ruined matter into furious energy. , "What am I looking at? Ashes, dead man." , "You can't learn to enjoy life's amusements in the pages of books. You must seek them out in earnest." , "Look at how cute it is now!"
—Vivien Reid , "An angel's skull is left too plain by death. I made a few aesthetic modifications."
—Dommique, blood artist , "We have ways to make you talk, but you have nothing interesting to say." , undefined , "Those that fall short of perfection can still contribute to the Great Work."
—Keskit, the Flesh Sculptor , The Soul of the World has returned. , "I am not afraid to die today nor afraid of what death will bring." , Death can wait. , "The cost of your opposition will be extracted from your wits."
—Nekusar, the Mindrazer , "The sky isn't the limit. It's the starting point." , Properly honored dead gain the peace of the grave and freedom from the call of the Ghost Quarter. , Fire to destroy. Fire to create. , "The explorer who found it got a bad deal when he sold it. He merely got rich." , "Keep your herons and shrews! You will find nothing in the moon, for the moon is a lie! It has told me so!" , It doesn't twist words. It twists worlds. , "Time is fluid as a dance, and truth as fleeting." , It frequently predicts imminent death by devouring. , "True riches are found in the mazes of the mind."
—Tamiyo, the Moon Sage , The floating city of High and Dry hasn't yet sunk under the weight of gold, but it's not for want of trying. , "Meat *and* eggs. We eat!"
—Borborygmos , Imitation is the sincerest form of piracy. , "Once you see past the veil we call 'reality,' altering your own shape is elementary." , Part of the acolytes' training is to walk along the Hekma, staring out at the ravenous horrors kept at bay by the God-Pharaoh's barrier. , Skilled merrow rudders ensure their charges arrive on time and without incident. , "I gladly offer my weapon and my life to the glory of my sovereign." , "There is no such thing as scrap metal. All such material can be repaired with the proper bonding agent."
—Quennus, metallurgeon , "Get ready, son." , "You're little now, yes, but one day your footsteps will make mountains tremble."
—Gustin, wildbonder , "It's not wise to keep glory waiting." , There is power in prayer, regardless of who is listening. , Mirri did not have time to think, only to react. , An elvish duel is a thing of beauty: the warriors' grace, the crash of steel, then the artful spray of blood. , "The youths prattle on about heroic deeds, but avoiding the noose is a feat more daring than their entire careers."
—Basarios the Blade , A hunter in the city requires the utmost cunning to survive. It must pounce only if the kill is certain, and leave the remains where no one will see. , On occasion, felidars leave meaty "gifts" outside the tents of explorers they consider worthy. , Silent as a serpent, twisted as a lone bog tree, evil as Tojira's heart. , "Wait, are *we* the decoys?" , The viziers serving Rhonas, the god of strength, maintain the menagerie of animals employed during his trial. , "Citizen! Your crime has been recorded. Cease movement and await arrest, or further penalties will be immediately imposed." , What remained of the Lunarch Inquisition found new ways to extract confessions. , Creatures of the Æther are notorious for neglecting their own well-being. , For sale: Complete wizard's library. Rare scrolls, grimoires, and works of ancient spellcrafting! Slightly abridged. , They evolved the ability to concentrate their neural activity into a single pulse, causing a disruptive but usually suicidal blast of psionic energy. , "I tolerate Phyrexians because the dragon requires it. But I have no patience for uninvited guests."
—Tezzeret , "To break another's mind is to deliver a fate worse than death. It is a terrifying power."
—Jace Beleren , "Gold can be reearned, goods restored. The moroii steal youth, more precious than either, and once gone, it's gone forever."
—Berta Suszat, civic healer , The vedalken always put their best thought forward. , "A mind may be steeled against madness, but all battlements fall in time."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur , "You will do the thinking for the both of us!" , "I know what you're thinking," Jace whispered in the mage's mind. "It's not going to work." , "The wizards of Takenuma Swamp faced the horrors of humanity every day. It's no wonder they fared so well against the kami."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , An elocutor forces criminals to confess to the laws they merely intended to break. , Until more information could be gleaned about Niv-Mizzet's intentions, Lazav took every opportunity to stall his experiments. , "I turn around and see nothing, yet I know it is behind me. Its fingers rummage in my mind, crafting new ideas." , The Riptide Project was perhaps the only school devoted to preventing the spread of knowledge. , "The memory of your existence will fade like the final stars of morning."
—Kaervek , "Tolaria floats upon a wheel of fortune."
—Ertai, wizard adept , The same devices sold as surgeons' tools in Lumengrid are sold as implements of torture in Mephidross. , "If that brain can't figure out the secret of the serum, then add more brains."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur , "Rage, my servants. Our ancient power is renewed in blood."
—Rakdos , "To rise like the sun—there is no greater feeling." , Defending to the death isn't always enough. , Though the executioner did not speak, the villagers got the message. , The puffer's flesh is the deadliest in the sea—and therefore the most useful. , It is best to conquer dragons before they hatch.
—Femeref adage , Ideas, not stones, form the true foundation of Meletis. , "I do things in my own time."
—Etha, initiate of Rhet crop , "Although nowhere on Kamigawa was safe during the war, the Takenuma Swamp was the most horrifying. The rotting bamboo itself rebelled against its mortal inhabitants, pulling them into unmarked graves."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , Like a great bellows it hisses, and its kin, both living and dead, are lifted to safety. , "Our unity revives our hopes." , "Gaea's memory is eternal, and she exists in all things."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer , "Little flower twirl and bloom, arise from this your rocky tomb. Little warrior slash and brawl, be born again to free us all." , Before tyrants or torturers, there was evil. , Before religion or civilization, there was order. , Before wars or weapons, there was anger. , Before labs or lectures, there was insight. , Before predators or prey, there was life. , "You can't think your way out of this, Jace. Thought implies life, and life requires a pulse—music to a hunter's ears."
—Vraska , "Ooh—right in the colon." , Gnarltrunk didn't remember having quite that many knotholes. , Cinder pyromancers measure their success by counting their enemies' smoking holes. , "Neither the false God-Pharaoh nor his bugs will decide our fate."
—Samut, former Tah-crop initiate , "If you refuse to see the light, then you will feel it." , "Amateurish. Nearsighted. A waste of my time and everyone else's."
—Indra, nullmage of Vectis , "When justice descends, the servant will burn with the master."
—Aurelia , He scowls at his imperfect creation, then crushes it to scrap. He salvages the etherium and begins anew. , "That's the funny thing about free will. You don't feel any different without it."
—Ambassador Laquatus , "Have no illusions," Volrath warned Greven, "about free will." , "What was heads again?"
—Mercadian magistrate , Stripped of his sight, he was free to see only the ideal. , For the first and last time, the horrific creature experienced terror. , The Orzhov hear the plans of the other guilds through the guilty thoughts of the disloyal. , "We have no need for these trinkets. We need only the strength of our swords and the virtue of our hearts."
—The Northern Paladin , Some priests speak in whispers of the Helvault, a silver prison of unpurged evils. , "I bring a fire to recast all the world." , A precious shell without, a delicious taste within. , "Combat is a form of worship, the clash of steel a solemn prayer."
—Pytamun, initiate of Nef crop , "Watch the voltage. We don't need another charred, crashing viashino."
—Bori Andon, Izzet blastseeker , Kithkin spellbottlers spend half their time preserving old memories and the other half punishing the new. , "Do you want to be alive or whole?"
—Ta-Karnst, Cho-Arrim healer , "We are all decaying, always in a state of near-death. One moment without breath and we begin to break down."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman , Too stupid to survive, too dumb to die. , "The Golgari would say that life comes from death and death comes from life. But sometimes, death comes from the dead."
—Vraska , It eagerly gobbles up bits of its own rotting flesh as they fall to the swampy ground. , "I do not like it," said Grizzlegom, "but I will take every soldier I can get." , "I don't understand the appeal of keeping these things as pets, unless you want your children eaten."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , "487. You're welcome."
—Bucky, flavor text writer , "We could learn a lot by watching the little ones," said Agnate. "Define 'little,'" replied Grizzlegom. , Do not judge a lizard by its size.
—Ghitu proverb , As a rite of passage, Kipamu youths taunt razorbacks with long sticks . . . then flee. , "Who you callin' 'shorty'?" , "Never cross a Pyknite, if you value your scalp."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian Chieftain , Five gods, one purpose. , His blade was forged over coals of moaning treefolk, curved at the optimum angle for severing heads, and heated to volcanic temperatures by his touch. , Its growl is the crackling and popping of a wildfire untamed. , The Multiverse is filled with limitless power just waiting for someone to reach out and seize it. , When you've been chased by a dragon, you run from every lizard.
—Suq'Ata saying , "Melt that which was never frozen."
—Spellbomb inscription , Water can be crushing, but it is predictable. Fire is always dynamic, its rage absolute and all-consuming. , "I always thought wizards were supposed to have owls or one-eyed cats for familiars, but flaming dinosaurs work, too." , "Who'd want to ignite things one at a time?"
—Chandra Nalaar , "Whoever thought of making mobile volcanoes was a genius."
—Chandra Nalaar , "The difference between a hellion and a volcano is that volcanoes don't get hungry."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House , "The Izzet are an equation that turns lunacy into explosions."
—Leonos, Azorius arbiter , "Anybody want some . . . toast?"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , Never ask a pyromancer if that's the best she's got. , An inferno is just a gesture away. , "I hope to meet Jaya Ballard someday. I think we'd get along."
—Chandra Nalaar , Who harnesses fire controls the world.
—Ghitu proverb , "From the volcanoes of Shiv to the Balduvian steppes, I have sought a worthy teacher. At last, I have found one." , "I hate this! I hate fire! I hate you for taking me on this route!"
—Norin the Wary , "Take inspiration from your enemies, and make their strengths your own."
—Alesha, Who Smiles at Death , They found themselves alive again, still bearing their mortal wounds. , "How can you claim the gods are merciless when they robbed the snake of its limbs to give the other creatures a sporting chance?"
—Hakim, Loreweaver , "It hunts grand game for Atarka, and when the time comes, it will become a mighty feast."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller , "Hear me, nameless, and obey." , Dying for the greater good still hurts. , The surprise of a battle cry can be as deadly as a blade. , An elder in one pride, of the Sigiled caste in another. , All things will crumble, whether by time or by force. , "Interesting . . . This mortal being seems to have been blessed with Qilin's essence."
—Mu Yanling's journal , As the druids had devoted their lives to preserving Dominaria, so did they devote their deaths. , The dread gases didn't kill Farbid. But as he lay in the muck, miserable and helpless, watching ghouls and rats advance on him, he wished they had. , "The ruin of the past is the topsoil of the future."
—Sokar, former Nef-crop initiate , They labor beside the anointed, constructing the vast monuments of Naktamun. , "O Great Captain, all is lost. They tunneled, they burrowed, they trenched. They sapped the strength of our defenses."
—Sorgus, *Chronicles of the Quarum Plains* , "My greatest creation—me!" , The soldiers of the Legion of Dusk have come to the colonies at Queen's Bay in search of glory and riches. They are veterans of centuries of warfare, and they thirst for conquest. , "Let the blood of the impure flow through you. Only the blessings of the golden city will purge its acrid taste from your mouth."
—High Marshal Arguel , "When properly invoked, the plasma globule encloses the offensive spell with a satisfying slurp." , You'd better know how to pray for rain. , A shrine to unchecked desire. , "What the . . . ?" , Most Ravnicans lead lives of desperate survival. Those who thrive are malleable enough to change with the ever-shifting politics of the guilds. , A skilled Izzet Chronarch can carry out an epic vendetta between the fall of one hourglass grain and the next. , Not all deaths are etched with mythic meaning and iconic glory. , Those who examine the amulet too closely have been known to become part of its ornate carvings. , The dwarves call their quicksilver techniques "improvisational weaponsmithing." , "You know you have achieved true power if the sea itself seeks to emulate your greatness."
—Vy Covalt, Neurok agent , "Phyrexians are tenacious. That's not the same thing as clever."
—Tezzeret , "Ogg hit wall. Ogg no kill wall. Ogg hate wall!" , The directors of the Riptide Project wanted instant results on the sliver experiments. They got their wish. , Quicksmiths are eager to jump from one project to the next, relying on flashes of inspiration rather than careful research. , "Let's add just a bit more stopping power." , "Let's just broaden its surveillance lens." , "Artifice has always stood upon nature's shoulders. Let us watch nature take a turn."
—Freyalise , "When the Kami of Utter Silence passes, walls lose their secrets. Scrolls lose their lessons. Tapestries lose their beauty. Where there was meaning, there is only stillness."
—Sensei Hisoka , "The best foresight is hindsight."
—Empress Llawan , Vorinclex removed its teeth so it wouldn't waste time chewing before moving to the next kill. , "They have long kept us under attack, but we do not lack for ammunition. The very bodies of our foes arm us against them."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish hero , "I know a ranger that thought to make a cloak of its hide. He ended up losing an eye for his trouble."
—Raf Gyel of the Quiver of Kessig , "A good day in Goldmeadow is one in which I don't spend all evening picking quills out of my backside."
—Calydd, kithkin farmer , While it's true that a quillspike does heal the sick, it's just because it finds them tastier that way. , "The land has been gracious enough to let you tread upon her for years. That privilege is about to end."
—Liefellen, Quirion exarch , "Never underestimate the ability of natural forces to adapt to unnatural influences."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer , Fight with a friend at your back, steel in your hands, and magic in your veins.
—Quirion creed , "Respect the earth, for it will one day be your shield and another day your blanket."
—Liefellen, Quirion exarch , All elvenkind stood against Phyrexia. The Quirion nation deployed its most spiritual adepts, who wielded the power of their native soil. , "All that matters is the path ahead." , Even the clouds bend themselves to Memnarch's will, eager to swallow those who oppose him. , A healthy felidar is voracious yet regal. A rabid felidar is nothing more than appetite lashed to frothing jaws. , She haunts the streets, wings spread wide, with carrion on her breath and blood in her eyes. , When in doubt, stomp. , Every sentence in Volrath's prisons ends the same way. , Is there any other kind? , Close finishes are settled by who can dismount and get to weapons first. , "My people are bound by masters centuries dead. Each artifact we destroy is another link broken in that chain."
—Barb Tail, viashino heretic , "This may hurt a little." , "Run home, cur. I've already taken your master's head. Don't make me thrash you with it." , "Her beauty was the beauty of the Sun at midday, deadly to those who underestimated her strength."
—Azeworai, "Kenechi's Dream" , The fires of Zendikar are always hungry, and there is much on which they can feed. , "All peoples treasure a place where the weary traveler may drink in peace."
—Ajani Goldmane , When angered or frightened, it protects itself with a burst of blinding light. , The Shifting Wastes are Dromoka's domain. She will not tolerate intruders. , As the Cabal legions pushed into Shiv, they learned not to stand so close together. , Genius is finding the edge of what's possible, then jumping over it. , "Crawing, crawing, For my crowse crawing, I lost the best feather i' my wing For my crowse crawing."
—Anonymous Scottish ballad , Many sigils, one purpose. , They cut the stitches and give her sips of her brew. Then they sew her up again, and she's back to stirring. , "After General Takeno found the Oathkeeper amidst the bamboo marshes, more scavengers braved the swamp's nezumi, oni, and kami in hopes of glory."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , "I see a spark of pure rage. Soon that spark will spread from the depths of Kragma. Soon its fire will engulf the polis."
—Hira, street oracle , New Phyrexia is an engine that both consumes and creates malice. , "Your precious laws can't save you now!" , The settlement knew there was something strange about the cloud when the old priest Mandli suddenly grabbed an axe and ran screaming into the hills. , Make every blow count. , The fury of the slaughter god Mogis burns within him. , "Some lament these haunted times, but I'm a geistflame-tank-half-full kind of person." , "Let my passion spur your victory." , "Sometimes the bulls win, and sometimes the bears win. But the bulls have more fun."
—Anonymous , Mountaineers quickly learn to travel with their spears always pointed up. , He raged at the world, at his family, at his life. But mostly he just raged. , "Every temper tantrum makes another angry gorilla."
—Femeref children's myth , It took Yavimaya a thousand years to breed them, but it took only seconds for them to prove their worth. , "Seeing so much easy prey makes her crazy. See how she snorts and drools?"
—Dhuuz, kronch wrangler , The only thing worse than a minotaur with an axe is an angry minotaur with an axe. , Some tried cremating their dead to stop the ghoulcallers. But the dead returned, furious about their fate. , Many tales of redcap terror begin with two simple things: bloodlust and stolen steel. , Its breath is a gale. Its roar is a volcano. Its anger tears soul from flesh. , "Its burning power is more elusive than shade on the Unyaro Plains, more perilous than the horn of a rhino."
—Akin, seasoned askari , Carnivorous dinosaurs developed a taste for undead flesh, tracking the vampires by the scent of blood on their breath. , He hunts what might have been. , "On the field of honor, a soldier need have no fear." , Goblins in the first wave of a fire raid always bemoan the aim of everyone else. , "To conquer is to eat."
—Edicts of Ilagra , One was spared to tell the gruesome tale. , "Our steeds need food, water, stabling. Theirs just need prey."
—Restela, Alaborn marshal , Children claim no two feathers are exactly the same color, then eagerly gather them for proof. , "A beauty made more so by its fleeting visitations."
—Teferi , In the feudal days of Icatia, finding the Rainbow Vale was often the goal of knights' quests. , Some say they are the weapons of heroes fallen in battle, eager for one last chance at glory. , Knives in the sky, cries in the air, and blood on the ground. , There's plenty to talk about in the marketplaces of Ravnica, be it the latest feud between guilds or the terrible weather. , "When I say it rained, it was not small drops, but a thick, greasy drool pouring from the heavens."
—Urza, journal , "Stay indoors, away from what seeps over the thresholds. This is the Demon's work, and only ill can come of it."
—Belko, owner of Titan's Keg tavern , "As the sky opened up, we ran for shelter. Halfway there I came to the sudden realization that, already soaked, there might be more to gain from experiencing the rain than running from it." , On Mirrodin, mages who call upon the power of rust are shunned by their people and often turn mercenary to survive. , Here, rain does not wash the land; it desiccates it. , "When mortals die, they have family, friends, compatriots to mourn them. When the land dies, all else dies with it, and there is no one left to weep."
—Jacinth, Skyshroud ranger , When the forests became havens for evil, the archmages devised new ways to cleanse the wilds. , The earth cannot hold that which magic commands. , Like blinking or breathing, responding to an alarm is an involuntary reflex. , "The strong can also be subtle." , Urza was the first to understand that the war would not be lost for lack of power, but for lack of troops. , "Great minds bleed alike." , Devil-blades and dripping blood make music Rakdos never tires of hearing. , "Let all feel joy in pain."
—Rakdos , "Burn. Bleed. Enjoy."
—Cluestone inscription , Rakdos rioters paint their faces to resemble the drakes' bloodied muzzles. , Ever wonder why you never see an old Rakdos Cultist? , Maze-runners who pass through the Rakdos gate leave behind their scruples and a significant amount of skin. , "Our thrulls dissolve from the inside out in a matter of days. Shoddy work, but they're a scream while they last."
—Uzric, Rakdos guildmage , The Rakdos use it for everything you can think of and plenty more than that. , "This trinket will gain you admittance to some painfully exclusive gatherings."
—Exava, blood witch , Ragemutts pull the chariots of the Butcher Clowns, a trio of wingless, zombified faeries formerly of the Izzet. , "That one has a bright future—perfect instincts for the rhythm of mayhem."
—Judith , "If there were such a thing as a soul, I think it would be behind the gallbladder but above the kidneys." , Made of bone and boiled in blood, a Rakdos signet is not considered finished until it has been used as a murder weapon. , When Lord Rakdos stirred from his slumber, everyone else's nightmare began. , "Entertain me." , "The louder their performance, the quieter we become in comparison. They are the perfect distractions, for only fools ignore the Rakdos."
—Lazav , Naya teems with gargantuans, titanic monsters to whom both nature and civilization defer. , "Raven's Run has awoken, and ravens will no longer cry in its branches."
—Roon Ghastbark , "How many claws does a monster have? Exactly one more than you've accounted for."
—Alux, Skysail defender , "If you're not having fun, what's the point of living forever?" , "The finest pawns are those with pawns of their own."
—Nicol Bolas , Some believe that Raksha, youngest of the kha, is the reincarnation of Dakan, the first and mightiest of leonin leaders. , "Death fills me and makes me strong. You, it will reduce to nothing." , Debts to rakshasa linger beyond death. , "Every failure, every death only makes my strength greater." , The voice of a rakshasa is soft, its breath sweet. But every word is the murmur of madness. , Rakshasa offer deals that sound advantageous to those who forget who they are dealing with. , "Stand your ground, troops! This shall be our finest hour!"
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox, last words , "If you're as loyal as you claim, now is the time to show it."
—Queen Linden of Ardenvale , "The sun's strength sings in our hearts! I have never been more proud of my home and my people."
—Huatli , Even the clouds became a field of battle. Known as the Sky Theater, it saw the Eternals clash with squadrons of angels. , "The family is a tree, and in times of need, every branch can be a weapon."
—Daghatar the Adamant , "Drive them back! Make their underworld into their grave!"
—Koth of the Hammer , "If you must go out at night, bring a mob."
—Master of the Elgaud Cathars , Yuri took up the ragged Boros banner, and his brethren, inspired by the act, followed him back into the fight. , The guildmasters loom large in the political sphere, but in the end, the rulers of Ravnica are its people. , "Time to find the melting point of lazotep."
—Ral Zarek , Emphatic words with powerful gestures. Clearly this was playtime. , Ramirez DePietro is a most flamboyant pirate. Be careful not to believe his tall tales, especially when you ask his age. , The Cho-Arrim believe in leading by example. , "Cho-Manno guides your spirit. I guide your sword." , "Give me your hand and I will give you victory." , The Ramosian tradition is alive, but its namesake has long since been forgotten. , Her commands are part rallying cry, part sermon, and wholly undeniable. , The Cho-Arrim fell from the sky onto Mercadia City like a vengeful rain. , "Rage! Rage until the whole world burns!" , "When the land is angry, so are they."
—Nissa Revane , Not even the tallest tree stands a chance against the underside of a dinosaur's foot. , Keldon warriors take advantage of the cyclops's inability to focus on more than one thing at a time. , All raptors are aggressive, but ferocidons seem to enjoy their prey's pain. , "Respect is earned through deeds—or the capacity to bite someone in half."
—Sana, former Ahn-crop initiate , "Be advised: suspect is nine stories tall, marble hair, answers to Saint Gusztav." , Tumult is its natural habitat. , No matter how righteous the cause, it helps to bring along some muscle. , Nature grows solutions to its problems. , "Not even the magistrate in his lofty tower is out of our reach."
—Cateran overlord , "He has strength and courage—just way, way too much of both."
—Syr Faren, the Hengehammer , As unstoppable as it is unsteerable. , "Need a medic! And some stonemasons!"
—Wyllon, Drannith merchant , "This world was once so much more than the confines of Naktamun." , "They're in the walls! Can't you hear them?" , Hatred outlives the hateful. , "The path of least resistance will seldom lead you beyond your doorstep."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , At his side, humble beasts become weapons more deadly than sharpened steel. , "You don't survive in the wild by standing in plain sight."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , The forest can seem like a dense maze. Those who travel the canopy know otherwise. , They cover their territory like a tide of teeth and claws. , "Left, right, left, right . . . hmm. Okay—left, left, left, left, . . ." , It recruits the fresh and tosses the rotten. , "I think someone is stealing from my laboratory. It had better not be you!"
—Geralf, letter to Gisa , "Surely it won't notice if I take—"
—Theria the Sly, last words , The grave robbers arrived the day after the burial. They were a day too late. , "We've merged your life essence with that of several creatures at once. You're welcome."
—Speaker Trifon , A raptor will follow any order as long as that order is "hunt," "kill," or "go for the guts." , "Every little hatchling has a parent's claws to guard it."
—Sun Empire saying , The only rare you'll ever need. Okay, not really. , It is not by the blood of dragons that Rashida measures victories, but by the sum of children who no longer wake from nightmares of scales and fire. , "Rarely be the prey so haughty as to hunt the hunter."
—Baron Sengir , An ogre's poisonous stench is like fine Kashkaval cheese to the noses lowest to the ground. , Wreckage from the Phyrexian Invasion provided the rats with a seemingly unlimited number of breeding grounds. , Wrap the flame as twine, Kingdoms will be thine. , Tangling vines, fetid murk, paralyzing poisons, and crawling dead. The swamp is nature's trap waiting to be exploited by unnatural minds. , "That does it—I quit!"
—Cabal grave robber , "These creatures offer new challenges in the scrutiny of entrails."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , The vegetation in Raugrin is dull, but that only makes the towering crystal structures gleam brighter. , Raugrin meets the sea with jaws wide, its coast spiked with teeth of crystal and granite. , "Thorn bushes spring up wherever the army has passed. Lean years follow in the wake of a great war."
—Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching, trans. Feng and English , In time, not even the fire monks could keep up with Chandra. , Upon his return to the capitol after taking soldiers to loot a nearby peaceful town, the prime minister, Dong Zhou, boasted of it as a victory over bandits. , The Raven Guild soars on winds of unease. , Build something and the baboons will tear it down. Leave the pieces lying and they will scatter them. , "All we know about the Krosan Forest we have learned from those few who made it out alive."
—Elvish refugee , "Nothing will cool the fire in their blood. They are too far gone. We must keep them away from our towns at any cost."
—Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard , Opening Orazca unleashed more horrors than just the Immortal Sun. , A daggertooth's triumphant roar makes all the sounds of jungle life fall silent. , undefined , The might of an army with the restraint of a child. , A harpy's hoard is a filthy, bloodstained pile of trinkets and corpses. , "I've made some fine acquisitions of late, so I'm planning to make commensurate improvements to my security systems. I have a consultant coming tomorrow."
—Kurna Majan, Luminary League , Hunger makes a leucrocota dangerous. A full belly makes it angry and dangerous. , Nothing is sacred to rats. Everything is simply another meal. , Hunger is a kind of madness—and here, all madness flourishes. , Death eventually wiggles toward us all. , Eternal life brings eternal hunger. , It plucks away memories like choice bits of carrion. , "I have a gift. The ability to sense encroaching darkness has saved many lives. And yet constantly feeling the force of so much ugliness is a terrible burden." , The heart of Ravnica disappeared before anyone could strike a blow in its defense. , "Heel." , The works of one god last only as long as the patience of another. , "Now your staff is as twisted as your soul." , "What is real can be unreal."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , "May angels carry him into the Blessed Sleep with dreams of sunlit days and moonless nights."
—Tomb inscription of Saint Raban , "The blood ritual is complete. The end approaches." , Liliana insisted on coming to Amonkhet to confront one of the two remaining demons to whom she is bound. , The viashino believe that the oldest mountains hate everyone equally. , Her sword burns with such brightness that foes avert their eyes and arrows divert their paths. , Only the chosen ones are spared. , "We protect our homelands. Why should they not protect us?" , Few can catch it without losing a finger. , One razorclaw is three bears too many.
—Elvish saying , Adapted to tread on razorgrass, the rhino proved adept at treading on Phyrexians as well. , DANGER! Keep appendages clear of front of machine. And rear of machine. And side of machine. And top of machine. , Once you have been marked by the merrow, you are not long for their waters. , No one knew if they'd been lurking under the sea all along, or if they'd been created by the Phyrexian overlay. , Like a meteor, it strikes from above without warning. Unlike a meteor, it then carries you off and eats you. , The longer it stands among the deadly blades of the Razor Fields, the more it adopts their harsh exterior. , Hand-stitched, and marked by the blood of the Auriok. , She incubates her eggs in gold and mana. , It gnashed its teeth, and the battlefield filled with the screech of blade striking blade. , "Amazing thing, gravity. It seems to work every time."
—Telim'Tor , "They aren't helping the forges. Send them to the surface."
—Furnace boss, sector 12 , "It no longer surprises me what shows up in our raid of a Rakdos revue."
—Janik Bara, Wojek captain , "Men and rats both hunger: we for our playthings; they, for us."
—Crovax, ascendant evincar , Where the Razor Fields beat back the Tangle, the crowded thicket yields to bright scimitars of grass. , "Let them complain. As long as the addictive ink is working, we can do anything we want." PLAY AT YOUR OWN RISK , Growth has no limits. , "Is it better to be a fool or a coward? Fools may get things done occasionally, but cowards live longer."
—Ghelesh Shadowmane, rakshasa mage , "Know one part of the name, obsession begins. Know two parts, paranoia sets in. Know three parts, madness descends. Know all, and only the kami know what will become of you."
—Lady Azami , The dead know lessons the living haven't learned. , "The world is a puzzle, and the mind is its key." , Charts and instruments work fine, but the best navigators aren't above a spell or two to nudge the tides in a more favorable direction. , "See how you like it."
—Ertai, wizard adept , Tarek could not tell whether he was losing his blood or his mind. , "Can you prepare for the unexpected? No, you cannot. You can prepare only to be surprised."
—Teferi , As easy to stop as it is to comprehend. , From the moment the first Eldrazi spawn squirmed free, everything on Zendikar took on an adjusted meaning, a new slant toward or away from the waking giants. , "Nothing is as it seems."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , It smarts more than the average bear. , The behemoth roared, and the world was blasted free of empires and tyrants. , There is not a single inch of Ravnica that hasn't been altered at one point or another to fit someone's whims. , "You'd better be worth it."
—Liliana Vess , "Let Volrath choke on his crop of hatred."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , "Avacyn has deserted you. I welcome your devotion in her stead." , It's harvest time. , The ground cracked and unleashed a thousand years of history at once. , The wreck hung on the jagged reef, each night disgorging more of its gruesome cargo. , The strength of the people comes from the land. And the bounty of the land comes from Karametra. , "They may show up with the wrong thigh bone or mandible, but they always show up."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord , Onora knew with sudden, grim certainty he would never see the Great River again. , Kozilek's brood infiltrates and deceives. The spawn of Ulamog mindlessly consume. , "Into amethyst, I pour
Envy's shadow, sorrow's gleam.
Lure the one whose scorn I bore
That I may hear one final scream."
—Barrow witch incantation , "She sees beyond technology to what it enables."
—Glacian, powerstone engineer , The problem with mercenaries is that if you can buy their loyalty, others can too. , "In darkness is kindled the fiercest hope."
—Hadran, sunseeder of Naya , Insult, like an arrow, is beyond control once loosed. , "I cannot teach you their brand of magic, but I can teach you how to defend against it."
—Tavalus, priest of Korlis , The first step in any artificer's scheme is to take inventory. , "No one chooses to be stitched together into a skaab. If it could speak, it would beg for its own destruction."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar , From the Radix at the hub of the Tangle all the way out to the Edges of Forgetting, a Viridian elf's life is built around the temporary. , "Just as the noble soul calls virtue to itself, the evil soul summons harm."
—Teachings of Eight-and-a-Half-Tails , The climax of a warlord's career is always death. , "I have a *great* idea!" , "How will you fight an enemy that cares nothing for itself?"
—The Blind Seer , His mind knows no fear, registering only the burning impulse to destroy. , "You have a family. Mine died at Sea Gate. You go to yours, and I'll go to mine." , Those who play with fire are bound to get burned. , Architects find inspiration in the dragon's beauty of form, while artificers are influenced by the function of its fire. , There is no such thing as a regiment of ogres. , "Release chaos with me!" , "A pangolin's power grows with its speed. Strike when you have the chance!"
—Jiang Yanggu's travelogue , Illegal street races turned out to be perfect practice for avoiding Consulate patrols. , "Hard to starboard! Starb— Abandon ship! Abandon ship!" , "The gods of Theros are born of the expectations and beliefs of mortals. If I have found godhood, what does that say about their true desires?"
—Xenagos, god of revels , Progress comes at a price. , "The end is justified in being mean. Or something like that." , undefined , Bred for battle in the Grand Coliseum, these wurms annihilated whole ecosystems when released into the wild. , The wise pay as much attention to what they throw away as to what they keep. , "This world tires of its long occupation."
—Nissa Revane , "We shall oppose Lim-Dûl and his forces by any means necessary, even if the very earth be torn asunder."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight , "What was once formed by masons, shaped by smiths, or given life by mages, I will return to the embrace of the earth." , It's wise not to disturb an artist at work. , There are places so horrible that even the dead hide their faces. , Anything sent into a plagued world is bound to come back infected. , "The bones of the past will tell their tales—if you know how to speak their language." , War favors the informed. , "The bonders work with creatures that fly, slink, and burrow. Assume they know everything."
—Jirina Kudro , Tedious research made the Sages of the College of Lat-Nam adept in repairing broken artifacts. , "No more fear of death's oblivion—is this not the greatest treasure of all?"
—Gurezan, Legion resurrectionist , Before a cause can have supporters, it has to have a voice. , For peace of mind, they mustered for war. , Kithkin somnomancers enjoy the peaceful dreams wafting from their victims. , "Rise once more, so you may continue to destroy our enemies."
—Karona, false god , "I am confined by sleep and defined by nightmare."
—Crovax , At first, Syr Fenwick scoffed when he saw his opponents for the final match. , "I admire their courage as much as I despise their savagery."
—Syr Carah, the Bold , By the battle of Red Cliffs in the year 208, the Wu kingdom controlled more than seven thousand warships on the Yangtze. , "Let me redeem my brothers both from death."
—William Shakespeare, *Titus Andronicus* , Nothing restrains a burning passion. , She was winning the Dominarian "Are You Hot?" competition until disaster struck during the wet T-shirt round. , "It's actually quite simple, but since you've only recently begun to walk upright, it may take some time to explain."
—Jace Beleren, to Garruk Wildspeaker , A dragon learns humility only in the moments before its death. , "Before they can go to their final rest, the wicked must be purified by fire."
—Harra the Adjudicator , "This world is a dream. We cling to our toys like children, but sooner or later we must learn to live without them."
—Sensei Hisoka , And would you strip the bark from a treefolk?
—Elvish expression meaning "Are you crazy?" , Relentless as the tides, souls dark as a moonless night. Bloodshed on their minds, and greed burning in their hearts like molten gold. , With one gesture, she can render a thousand years of navigational charts obsolete. , From you to me, so me to you.
—Femeref children's taunt , Does it reflect the future that once was or the past that can never be? , "Be as fast as lightning, and you will be just as deadly."
—Combat trainer , "This sliver comes into the world a perfect predator. It's ready to hunt and devour its first meal within seconds of hatching."
—Rukarumel, field journal , "Before you can open your third eye, you must prove you can open the first two." , In a wave of spells called the Cursemute, Avacyn cleansed the world with divine fire. , Death is a moth that dances toward our inner flame. The brightest fire can singe its wings.
—Nantuko teaching , "There's no reason to buy a new one when I've got the tools to fix the one you've got."
—Ripu, repair specialist , Those of esteemed birth earn a most esteemed death. , Oketra's closest viziers are known as her chosen, though others may have a better claim to that moniker. , It rarely moves, standing stock still in its clearing. When it does stir, ravens stop their cawing and crickets their chirping. All of nature watches in awed silence. , Unicorns don't care if you believe in them any more than you care if they believe in you. , It stalks the Regathan highlands, leaving behind melted snow, scorched earth, and the charred corpses of would-be temple robbers. , "This wound shall be like the chills of winter: swiftly forgotten when spring shoots rise." , "A touch of vine sap in the blood, and the flesh knits as quickly as new roots twining."
—Freyalise , "When you get right down to it, the difference between death and life is just a membrane-enclosed environment maintained by a metabolic process."
—Gulistan, Simic biomancer , "You're done!" , "Seeing a pack of these monsters hunt together, I'm at a loss to imagine the size of their prey."
—Adrian Adanto of Lujio , "Show them the light, my love."
—Krav, the Unredeemed , "Never look too deep, where the waters turn dark. What the sea has hidden there may not stay down forever."
—Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad , While the root remains, the tree yet lives. , "The Burning Isles are the home to a dozen lords who claim dominion. Jamuraa will look to only one leader: me."
—Kaervek , "I don't know what takes them; they die around me without time to scream."
—Scout Ekemet, final journal , "You cannot imagine what eyes you may look through tomorrow."
—Aerona, elder druid , Built of wood and iron. Held together by hope and prayer. , "Let them send their legions! I will show them that my truth is stronger than their swords."
—General Varchild , "Echoes of the Mirari's power yet linger."
—Zyd, Kamahlite druid , Lanterns carved from the mystic stones of the Reito Mines were said to light the way of lost souls. , When they're done pummeling each other, the fighters relax companionably in the springs, warming their sore muscles. , "After his death, monks spent ten years transcribing the tattoos from Reki's body and gathering stories from those who spoke with him. Thus the volume you hold was written."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , "An axe may break upon a ribbon if the ribbon's will is the stronger."
—Awylla, elvish safewright , The hardest lessons to grasp are the ones you've already learned. , They charge into battle and out for their morning walk with the same exuberance. , "Being an inventor means knowing how to use the tools at hand to make something great—or to bring it down."
—Pia Nalaar , "Here and gone like a fleeting breeze." , They approach in formation, every movement efficient and sure. They halt, listen, and then press on in silent unison. , "Mercy? Mercy is for the playground, not the battleground." , "I swore to take one head for each member of my family they killed. My task is nowhere near its end." , Calix was patient, steadily following Elspeth until their destined confrontation. , As the battle for Orazca unfolded, the contenders discovered that others had already staked a claim. , Old power finds new purpose. , "It's light as a feather, but it hits with the force of a boulder. A very sharp boulder." , A sword that has seen cowardice in battle exacts the price of honor from its wielder. , Its transmissions are the word of Memnarch. It speaks, and metal bows. , There are many ruins, but there used to be many more. , Elves believe the hydra-god Progenitus sleeps beneath Naya, feeding on forgotten magics. , "Until we shed the curse of sentience, we must endure its grotesque handiwork."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , "Here, you take it!" , Her knack for tampering with wards got her kicked out of the academy, but they also got her back in. , Asmira's prayers alone should have freed Mangara from the amber prison . . . , Sometimes gestures of support are small. Sometimes not. , A thing of Serra's realm exists only by the grace of her followers' faith. , Once guarded by the Knights of the Reliquary, the tower stands now protected only by its own remoteness, its dusty treasures open to plunder by anyone. , For the Azorius, the law can be a physical shield against chaos and anarchy. , "These things will protect you while I'm gone, remind you of my love for you."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , When the Mirrans had fallen, Planeswalkers carried the burden of remembrance. , Leave the door to the past even slightly ajar and it could be blown off its hinges. , 6 PM (23) This Old Grove 98055 A rusted masticore makes a beautiful addition to any garden. , A lifetime of keeping up appearances is not enough to earn an eternity of rest. , "I have suffered a thousand lifetimes of agony on this wretched world. I've far less time to share with you, but I assure you, no less pain."
—Ob Nixilis , Nethya stiffened suddenly, head cocked as if straining to hear some distant sound, then felt lifeless to the ground. , "We have confiscated your spells as evidence. Once we conclude our investigation, you may petition to have them returned." , "The Reito Massacre was a testament to the kami's unstoppable power. The human defenders might as well have been moths battling a forest fire."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , The sky offers few hiding places. , "The battle at Ganzan Pass was a testament to human endurance. The untrained and frightened group escaped three legions of kami, leaving more than their share of slain foes in their wake."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , Confront it at your own peril, for it will confront you for its own amusement. , To truly know a creature, slither a mile in its tentacles. , "For freedom! For fame! For fire!" , "We have safe houses in every zone, but you'll never find one without this." , "This fight belongs to us all." , You can't fight what you can't find. , "Nothing against you. It's just that waiting for Consulate clearance was never really my thing." , "Across the land rebellions seethed and swarmed / As vicious war lords swooped down on all sides." , "His tongue must be honey, the way he gathers ants to fight with him."
—Volrath , Many veterans of the Ovalchase racetrack turned their talents to the renegade cause. , Skepticism fades in the face of the miraculous. , Dawn brings a new day, and a new day brings hope. , Death just encourages life the more. , Gerrard offered no defense to Orim's condemnation; the mission was under his command, and he was responsible. , "Scores will die in the name of peace. That is what you call compromise?"
—Gideon Jura, to Aurelia , "You think your weaving as beautiful as mine? Let me show you the true meaning of the craft." , "Sorry I burned down your village. Here's some gold." , Sorin has gathered grudges for centuries, patiently awaiting the day he can exact the perfect vengeance. , "Your deed cannot be undone. You, however, can be."
—Agosto, Azorius imperator , It's in the nature of fire to grow. , "I have a hunch we'll be seeing that one again soon."
—Ambassador Laquatus , "Fight for a better future, even if you may not live to see it."
—Grete, Order of Saint Traft , A boon to those who cannot see in the dark. A bane to those who live in it. , "The cannon wasn't aimed at you!" pleaded Vhati. "I'm not sure which is more pathetic," replied Greven, "your judgment or your aim." , "For my confession they burned me with fire / And found that I was for endurance made."
—*The Arabian Nights*,
trans. Haddawy , Not all Keld's warriors are found on the battlefield. , Treasures, trinkets, trash—the relics of the past are brought forth again. , "A tiny flame is enough to dispel the night."
—Elspeth , There was a time all craven beasts cowered before Avacyn's divine might. , Everything will find its use in Phyrexia. Eventually. , Danger often lurks in the allure of crystal shards. , "You aren't invited." , When angels despair, what hope can remain for mortals? , Three hundred years of practice thwarted by an instant of mischief. , With just a few seconds to escape, Deryan saved Hurkyl's editions on restoring physical objects from ash. , "Now, little fighter, show me you deserved this second chance." , There are many words and phrases that can cause an experienced wizard to tremble in fear. Chief among them is "oops." , Renegade supply lines are, by necessity, mobile and difficult to disrupt. , "Today's paperweight, tomorrow's leveler."
—Bruenna, Neurok leader , Nomads understand many cultures and therefore travel without fear. , "My soldiers fought without hesitation, died without doubt."
—Sidar Jabari , Cut it down, bury it in snow, put it to the torch. The rose will still bloom again. , "Great steel is born in the hottest forges. Great soldiers are born in war." , "Respect the wilds? Certainly. Fear them? No." , "If you practice something often enough, it becomes part of you. That's why we train, and that's why we survive."
—Tasha, Greypelt veteran , "We are crops no longer. Reap elsewhere." , A friend in good times, a guardian in bad times, and a savior when all else fails. , When the salvage team brought in the shattered gearhulk, a wave of excitement swept through the renegade foundry. , "If they board us we're finished," warned Orim. Crovax nodded. "And if they don't . . . what then?" , Thoughtweft gives new meaning to the phrase "common knowledge." , Zendikar is a brutal taskmaster, but sometimes it offers unexpected solace. , "I will keep watch." , "We mourn our dead. We shroud our dead. We bury our dead. Too often, it seems, we must kill our dead again."
—Grazda, veteran armorer , The rich's heirs often thank them after death . . . but preferably not in person.
—Suq'Ata epigram , Braids dreams of dark rebirth. , What looked like a retreat was actually a replenishing. , All she touches turns to well-oiled, delicately calibrated, perfectly balanced gold. , Dwarves' tools are priceless heirlooms handed down through generations. , "See, the land itself raises an altar to the ascendancy of nature."
—Mayael the Anima , "You can always count on the Azorius to ruin a party."
—Massacre Girl , "Hanna would give up her own life before she'd abandon the *Weatherlight*."
—Sisay , "If the scalelords are the brains of Dromoka's army, the supply caravans are its beating heart."
—Baihir, Dromoka mage , Think of this new life not as a gift from the angels but as a command to fight for their cause once more.
—War blessing of Serra , "It is the art of convincing someone to live."
—Orim, Samite healer , The Auriok learned perseverance from their forebears. They learned justice from the leonin. , A foul, metallic stench clogged Urza's senses. It was then he knew his brother was no more. , For every eye, an eye. For every tooth, a tooth. Griffins are nothing if not fair. , The rifts reach into infinite time streams, bringing the divergent products of alternate pasts into the present. , "Are you *sure* you want to do that?" , An army from a soldier, a flock from a bird, a school from a fish . . . a profit from an atrocity. , "Secrets are meant to remain secret."
—Memnarch , Where the geometries of the world collapse, a master of the aether can harvest power beyond comprehending. , Abzan ancestors died to protect their Houses, and they protect them still. , "Tread upon the meek, and they shall wound your feet and make you crawl."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , "The last blast is the biggest."
—Sargis Haz, artificer , "If one harm us, strike them in return. So sayeth the bey." , Driven away by his living kin, he wanders mourning through the wilderness, seeking the dead city of Asphodel. , They lived in different nations and fought in different eras, but as the Returned, they link arms as one. , The flesh is dead and the life forgotten, but old habits persist. , The First Sliver calls. The dead answer. , "The curse is broken." , "Swallowing his eye, the valiant Xiahou Dun fought on; / But Cao Cao's vanguard, its commander wounded, could not hold out for long." , Some timelines forever fray, branch, and intermingle. Others end abruptly. , "Yes, nature is stronger. You don't see little buildings sprouting on trees."
—Emmara , "Dragons are feared for their breath and their bite, but it is their wings that make them unconquerable. Bring them to earth, and they die like any other beast."
—Kassur, Sultai hunter , "The sands obscure the vision of others, but clarify ours."
—Faiso, Dromoka commander , "To arms! To arms! The Lion roars!" , "It's nice to see a sister Dwarf in a position of such power, but why'd it have to be one of those seafaring muleheads?"
—Halina, Dwarven Trader , "Many are in high place, and of renown: but mysteries are revealed unto the meek." —Ecclesiasticus 3:19 , "Xenagos has fallen, and the world grows dark without him. What can ever fill that darkness but our rage?"
—Guruthes, disciple of Xenagos , A deflated sigh breathed into the horn emerges as an inspiring melody. , Born from the slaughter of an entire army, it bears the wrath of a hundred souls. , "The Golgari raise the bodies of their dead to serve. We raise the spirits of our dead to lead." , Syr Tasdale declared that he never wanted to see the witch Ygretta again. Her familiars quickly granted his request. , "Not bad, but I can think of a better use for that." , "The mists coalesced into silent warriors. We charged them and broke through their lines, only to see them swirl and re-form behind us."
—Golas Mahr, black knight , The Cho-Arrim worship life and revere those who've experienced it longest. , "I felt unworthy even to dream of it."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , "Despite the massive forces that allied against him, Konda never once believed he would lose the Kami War."
—Masako the Humorless , "Zeal is the sharpest blade, and piety the strongest shield." , "Why learn hundreds of spells when you can learn only one and use it to steal hundreds?" , "My enemy's hatred is his weakness. My enemy's anger is my strength."
—Remin, venerable monk , The Hold, an illegal research facility in a derelict merchant ship, became a wellspring of renegade intelligence. , Worse than the years of aging was the burden of memory. The young monk lost his youth and gained a vicarious lifetime of hardship and woe. , "A potion is no substitute for a skilled surgeon, but it will hold your bits in."
—Torricks, battlefield medic , Even what is lost beyond recall returns when coaxed by a dryad's hand. , Samite healers never mix their pungent elixir with sweetener or tea. The threat of a second dose is enough to get most warriors back on their feet. , "Listen to my song, and you need never forge a golden mask to return to me." , "The time has come for us to throw off the chains of tyrannical gods and antiquated superstitions."
—Tikaia, disciple of Uremides , "By order of Consulate Mandate 482, I am required to detain you, citizen." , By the time a Consulate sanction becomes official, the renegade quicksmiths have already found a way to circumvent it. , "Everything is in place. Nothing can happen that isn't part of my plan."
—Urza , "When you have drunk your fill, pass the cup to others who thirst." , "The best denials are simply that: a beginning and end unchanged, a dream with no memory." , "You have not died until I consent." , "In the afterlife, I'll have no need of sleep. And until then, I have no time for it!" , "The dead gain new purpose here. What is strange in the eyes of other guilds is harmonious in ours."
—Devesh, Golgari shaman , Rhonas continued to fight until his last breath and even beyond. , "The worthy shall hone a strong body to endure the boundless energies of the afterlife."
—Monument inscription , "Give me some room." , It's as solid as the club in its hand—and about as subtle. , An enlightened soul caged in a body made for battle. , "In this new world, I have seen the once-devout rhoxes take up arms with the savages of Jund. I would be offended, but I see the wisdom in their choice."
—Gernan, Dawnray archer , "Momentum is a great ally." , Rhoxes who live long enough to retire from war lend support with their extensive knowledge of combat injuries. , The weight of her conviction balances on the harmony of her soul. , "The further into the future I look, the less certain my vision. Even now, the middle distance is obscured by fire." , When the rhoxes charge, everyone else knows which way to run. , "Battle is all about where you stand. Never stand in my way." , Rhox monks are dedicated to spiritual growth and learning, and most bear the sigils of many students. However, they do not gladly suffer fools or those who disagree with their carefully wrought dogma. , Once a famed hunter and packmaster, now a renegade seeking his own path. , Whole again in honor and horn. , "All mages dip into the same well; some are just in more of a hurry."
—Alexi, zephyr mage , The circle buys time—an important commodity in battle. , "I'll rain down on you with the power of magic itself. Then we'll see who prevails."
—Alexi, zephyr mage , "The trick is to ask when no one's listening."
—Alexi, zephyr mage , A shield for one is good. A shield for everyone is even better. , Friends teach what you want to know. Enemies teach what you *need* to know. , Jamuraan wizards are linked together by magic, a bond that only the wicked dare exploit. , Any lock can be undone, any secret revealed. , Some view Domri's unlikely ascent as a sign of Ilharg the Raze-Boar's imminent return. , All snakes slither. Only this one soars. , "My favorite meal is angel's flesh, slain in agony and iced with black vinegar."
—Aszala of House Dimir , "If wisdom is a river, then we cup our hands, reach in, and drink from it in sips. The kami, however, are like fish, swimming, breathing, surrounded in its presence."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf , Everything it sees it considers food—and with that many eyes, it's not liable to miss much. , And yea he doth spake: "Let there be Magic." , In his last seconds, Remhas regretted using his most powerful spell. , Fools surrender their sanity to his riddles. Even greater fools try to solve them. , "Safe passage requires only a simple answer to a simple question, traveler." , The Neurok see the artificer as an archaeologist, clearing away falsehoods to see the truth hidden beneath. , The Order of Saint Traft cleared the roads of cultists and horrors, opening the way for the villagers to flee Thraben. , "It offers but a taste of the power that the shadows have to offer. But even that is a heady wine indeed."
—Ratadrabik of Urborg , While armies battled across Jamuraa, beasts stalked the high places looking for victims. , "Only those with the strength to seize their destiny deserve to have one."
—Nacatl scratchforms , "Each creature holds a solution to a problem, a lesson to be learned."
—Oviya Pashiri, sage lifecrafter , "The Skirk Ridge has many wonderful things to discover—like escape routes."
—Foothill guide , One of the greatest steeds in the empire, Red Hare could travel a thousand *li* a day and climb hills as if running on flat ground. , "All men have their appointed time; that's something no horse can change."
—Liu Bei, after being told that the Dilu brings its master ill fortune , "Being all-knowing is a matter of remembering which things it is crucial to forget." , "It's difficult to heal a rift after it begins wandering about on its own."
—Teferi , "Beings of the rifts are not natural. No longer will these abominations tread upon the body of Gaea." , The hook makes him feel brave, and the hat makes him feel fancy. , "There is a great difference between pain and injury."
—Cho-Manno , Few can withstand the wrath of the righteous. , "The Golgari believe they should be given what they deserved. On this we agree."
—Tajic , "Until the world unites in vengeful fury and Phage is destroyed, I will not stay my hand."
—Akroma, angelic avenger , "In the name of peace, moderation, and decency—wipe them all out!" , "You are the disease that plagues Mercadia. I am the healer's knife that will cut you out." , Syr Damon looked at the dragon and saw the faces of every innocent it had devoured. Suddenly, his sword blazed like the sun. , "This is a war without neutrality."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , The enormous can still be at the mercy of the small. , "Tresserhorn is ours now. Dredge the lake and bring me all the bones you find. We'll build you a new army, the likes of which Terisiare has never seen."
—Heidar, Rimewind master, to Haakon , "The Dryads told us to stay, as no new horrors would come when it was so cold. Three of us left anyway. The rest believed their lies, and their skeletons weren't found until the thaw."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "Fools view winter as the season of death because they cannot see the life underneath." , The unfortunates so transformed hungered not for flesh, but for warmth. , "The Thaw brings flooding, disease, and death. We will do all in our power to bring frigid peace back to the world." , "Find solace in the sun? Burning, blinding, laying secrets bare? No, solace is found under the blanket of cold." , Not every cage is made of bars. , To the uninitiated, the Ring of Renewal is merely an oddity. For those fluent in the wielding of magic, however, it is a source of great knowledge. , Ding, ding, ding! , "Without flame, there would be no iron tools, no cooked meals, no purge of old growth to make room for new."
—Brighthearth creed , The owls learn of mana from the mages who know it best. , "Ravnicans need order. If they don't have it, we shall bring it to them."
—Isperia , Devils are demons' unearthly desires made flesh. Let loose on the world, they satisfy their mad craving for destruction in a whirlwind of chaos. , Any meeting between guilds requires proper equipment. , He doesn't care whether he's rioting about trade rights or just having a drunken brawl. He wakes up every morning eager to smash some heads. , "So the vampires like hot blood, do they? Let's see how they handle ours." , Most auramancers would have let the spikes hover just above the skin. Having the spikes rip through the skin from beneath was a touch added by Rakdos himself. , If you breathe, she will fight you. If you breathe fire, she must fight you. , Raptors are clever enough to tear away a hard metal shell to get at the tasty morsel inside. , Dinosaurs rarely understand the idea of boundaries between the wild and the urban landscape. , "I gave it two choices: life in the lab or death in the hunt." , "I want one."
—Kiora , The wizard consulted the Riptide Project about how to further his research. He wasn't prepared for what they told him. , It sleeps with its claws open. , Those who lead others to wisdom become the wisest themselves. , It wants you to be its chum. , "As the storm waves crushed my sailors, I cried out to Thassa. The next time I saw them, hard shells encased them, and they swam away to safety."
—Siona, captain of the *Pyleas* , "I love those who are eager to serve."
—Liliana Vess , "Death is no excuse for disobedience."
—Liliana Vess , "Dear brother, it's sweet that you have chosen to share your toys with Ludevic, but I too have found some new playmates."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa , "No, not 'washed' ashore. It *walked* ashore."
—Shafring Hulm, beachcomber , "Most days the sea is my friend. But only most days."
—Jori En, expedition leader , When one of the great guardians arises, it sweeps enemies aside like chaff yet takes care not to crush a single insect underfoot. , An offering to the sea brings an insight from the stars. , "For every living person there are generations of dead. Which realm would you rather rule?"
—Liliana Vess , A river even the merrow dare not cross. , A hero dies, and a legend arises. , Plidius wagered that Arissa couldn't kill a chimera with her javelins alone. She proved him wrong in a way everyone could see for days to come. , The view is truly spectacular—as long as you don't look at Rishada itself. , The bigger the purse, the greater the fool.
—Rishadan saying , "The best things in life are free. Money, for instance." , Everything comes to the waterfront eventually, on the tide or on credit. , Rishada is the gateway to free trade—but the key will cost you. , "Aether is the soul of Kaladesh, and all souls should be free." , "Control the Great Conduit? You might as well try to divert a river with your hands." , Grief is a crucible where resolve is tempered. , Rising waters, sinking hope. , Deep beneath the ice, beneath the soil and the rock, Dominaria's fire still burned hot. , Every scar is a lesson, every battle a test of what you have learned. , Skirsdag cultists refused to quietly accept Avacyn's ascendancy. , "From your death, new life. From your loss, our profit."
—Kirada, Qarsi overseer , "Dance, and bring forth the coil! It is an umbilical to Gaea herself, fattening us with the earth's rich bounty." , Don't cross a Devkarin elf unless you long for an early grave. , "Rith is the claw of the ur-dragon, scattering seeds of devastation." , "Nothing is more sacred than the gift of blood. Blessed are the vein that empties and the heart that is renewed." , Leonin raising ceremonies take place at the white sun's dawn, the rebirth of artifacts mirroring the birth of a new day. , Only the patrol's armor was found, so tainted with the acrid smell of sudden death that it could never be worn again. , "Our soldiers are blessed with lizard scales as hard and cold as steel."
—Sidar Jabari , "That which does not bend to the will of Freyalise shall surely break."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order , "Rumors persist of dark deeds performed in the depths of Soldev. When will Dagsson heed the danger therein?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic , A mask forged to avenge a death forgotten. , The goblins revered it; the viashino defended it. Only Urza understood it. , They could agree on one thing only: one of them must die. , "Political violence is a perfectly legitimate answer to the persecution handed down by dignitaries of the state." , The bears had been isolated on an island for hundreds of years, until the island sank and the bears didn't. , "Sheath your swords! Cudgels only. I see a new pair of waterproof trek boots slithering away."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper , "Don't make splashes. Make progress."
—Tishana , Mimics don't hide their natural form well, but their disguises work well enough on boggarts. , undefined , "We are kin to the trees, and their strength is our own." , "It's a cruel thing to give such a sad song to such a colorful creature."
—Sana, former Ahn-crop initiate , "Since the war began, fishermen don't sing to the kaijin to ask for full nets. They guard the shore with thrice-blessed spears, saving the nets for their wives to pack their belongings and leave."
—Hayato, master sailor , "Dwelling in icy mountain streams near goblin and orcish foes, the river merfolk were known for their stoicism."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. V* , "The Westfolk wept, and their tears wore winding rivers into the cheek of the world."
—Glem the Lonebard, "Origins of Kholon" , Though the Luxa River brings life to Naktamun, it's not without dangers. , No ripples, no splashes, no warning. , Carefully following the thaumatic compass Bolas had given her, Vraska blundered straight into the River Heralds' trap. , Adepts of the Riverwheel Stronghold can run through rain and never get wet; masters use the raindrops as stepping stones. , "Time flows as the rivers do, toward an unknown sea. The wise know to look downstream." , "Turn a blender into an arc welder with a portable fusion reactor and a frozen yogurt dispenser? We can do it!" , Even miles away, if you put your ear to the sewer vents, you can hear the screams and the tempestuous laughter. , Insatiable, irresistible, and insane. , Some who die senseless deaths return as formless spirits, seeking answers where there are none. , "They're easy enough to find. Question is, are you sure you want to find one?"
—Juruk, Kalonian tracker , Wurms compete for nesting grounds near the Radix. The young who hatch closest have the best chance for survival. , "Yesterday's relics will determine the outcome of tomorrow's war."
—Ushanti, leonin seer , One voice is but a pebble to the rest of the world. A thousand voices at once is an avalanche. , "Intruders in the lands of Atarka have but two choices: be consumed by fire, or be consumed by maw."
—Ulnok, Atarka shaman , In pursuit of the juicy fly, Squee stumbled on the hidden hangar. , "Some say you cannot hit what you cannot see. I prefer that you hit what I want you to see."
—Arcanis the Omnipotent , Rocs' innate fearlessness makes them ideal mounts for emergency response. , A thin shell lies between the roc and a world of bite-sized treats. , "As it charged our keep, I mistook it for a bear. After it tore through our ramparts and half the guard, I wished it had been a bear after all."
—Ballista guard , In the eastern reaches of Jamuraa are arrangements of massive stones. No one knows their origins—for certain. , "Aven bandits can be sly. You've got to fill the sky with boulders—and then seek cover immediately."
—Knight-Captain Wyhorn , What these devices lacked in subtlety, they made up in strength. , Goblins don't know much about physics, but they know lots about falling and rocks. , Many take the lobster for granite. , "Good ol' rock. Nothing beats rock."
—Rhirhok, goblin archer , On Jund, even the landscape is a deadly hunter. Volcanoes, tar pits, and rock slides seem to prey upon the living. , "You can cower from the crushing shards or embrace the danger of Akoum. I've made my choice." , We encountered a valley topped with immense boulders and eerie rock formations. Suddenly one of these boulders toppled from its perch and sprouted gargantuan wings, casting a shadow of darkness and sending us fleeing in terror. , The good news is it's so simple a goblin could use it. The bad news is it's so simple a goblin could use it. , Minutes before the campus watch busted pledge week at the Alpha Beta Unlimited house . . . , "Rise, elf. We are both of Gaea, and thus we are equal."
—Multani, to Rofellos , Strength is relative. , "When are trees like grass?"
—*The One Thousand Questions* , Every litter of kavu yields one cub that refuses to hunt with the pack. , "It's natural, it's all around us, and it's there for the taking. Just try and tell me what I'm doing is wrong." , Thievery requires subtlety, from the beginning of the heist to the end. , Rumors quickly spread among thieves about a labyrinth without walls and a prize beyond all measures of worth. , A vortex that devours everything—even the souls of the living. , "Our feeble villages and tiny encampments stand only at the whim of the Roil."
—*The Invokers' Tales* , "Roots find their way through rock, and even mountains must give way to new growth."
—Nissa Revane , "The trembling lands ruptured, leaving an open door for things from below to emerge."
—Screed of the Mul Daya , "The Roil may be unpredictable, but it is not uncontrollable."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage , Weather on Zendikar is unpredictable—unless you're the one telling it what to do. , "We can use their hunger to lead them into danger. If we're already prey, we may as well be bait!"
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist , Uthlon the Wise scandalized sphinx society, hooting the answers to riddles as he rampaged through Tin Street. Grangle, on the other hand, sat for hours, deep in thought, largely ignored by fellow goblins. , "Embrace every moment, for it could be your last."
—Xenagos, god of revels , An empire can take centuries to build but mere moments to destroy. , The shadow that fell over the grove was silent yet horribly alive, roiling with millions of tiny minions dedicated to the process of rot. , "Trust me—the walls have more than just ears."
—Orcish spy , When demons open a path to your front door, it's time to move. , "Zendikar is always angry, though I've never seen that anger so precisely directed."
—Nablus, North Hada trapper , The akki were surprised to encounter a human who could fight in the caves as well as they. , Some samurai fell so far out of grace that only dogs would keep them company. , With the spread of Rimewind's sorcerous winter, snow dwellers reclaimed their places atop the food chain. , The aberrant magic of the Rimewind drew the unicorns back from the northern wastes to do battle once again. , No heartbeat to hear, no greed to bribe, no fear of death. , "Let those idiot priests tremble! A new era in unlife begins here and now. Oglor, raise the lightning vane!"
—Stitcher Geralf , "Stop locking your knees as you strike! Now stand up and try again." , "Time and space are just new battlefields to be mastered." , Cliffs echo and branches quake at the roar of life. , As Gerrard made his escape, the wurm covered his flight by helping itself to three great mouthfuls of merfolk. , The Vintara Forest welcomes its enemies with a crushing embrace. , "All the sylvan secrets of this world are etched between my rings. The skinfolk's metal aberrations can rot between my roots."
—Colfenor, the Last Yew , The root of all greevils. , Their feeding habits leave them with gizzards full of tumbled gems. , Pause for the briefest of moments to consider the whorl of brambles, the tangled twist of bark, and the maze has already won. , "That which nourishes can also bind."
—Gemma, Willow Priestess , "It would take another apocalypse to stop the slivers now."
—Riptide Project researcher , The roots run deep under stone and street, with strength that needs but a whisper to awaken. , "They're not half as fierce if they don't see you coming."
—Devin, Faerie Noble , They make terrible pets … unless you don't like your other pets. , Subduing and skinning an alligator is the first rite of maturity adolescent merfolk must pass. , Rootwater merfolk are seldom seen these days, but elf corpses are as numerous as ever. , "Drop a dagger into the murky deep and the merfolk will cut your throat with it."
—Skyshroud saying , "Bitter water, vicious wave;
Shadow-cold shallows, root-made maze.
Home's angry embrace."
—*Rootwater Saga* , In the harsh depths of Rootwater, the charms of surface dwellers are quite useless . . . except as lures. , "Read the roots tell the tale
Future forms in waving weeds
Higher than truth is hope."
—*Rootwater Saga* , "Ugh! When did orcs and fish start having kids?"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , In an attempt to restore pride to Shiv and to forge an undying legacy, Rorix traveled far to compete for glory in Otaria's Grand Coliseum. , "I long for peaceful times, when I may tend to my garden instead of our borders." , "Old battlefields make great gardens. So rich from the blood of the fallen." , Night after night, Rosheen babbled about a bygone sunlit world, her every word dismissed as a madwoman's ravings. , "Don't look into its eyes. It's thinking things no dead thing should think."
—Captain Eberhart , "The roterothoper is as insidious as it is ingenious. It is one of the few creations of our school that I take no pride in."
—Baki, wizard attendant , Is it at the top of the food chain or the bottom? , "If I die, feed me to a shambler. At least that way I'll be doing some good."
—Ryza, Oran-Rief scout , The hulk rose from the sea and loomed over the Champion. Pinned beneath the twisting, rotted planks of wood was the body of Kaliaros, the helmsman of her former crew, and beside him the captain, Photine.
—*The Theriad* , Vorinclex had no grand plan. The oil did its own work, evolving creatures into worthy predators. , "To die failing to save a loved one is just so sad—or, more to the point, pathetic."
—Liliana Vess , Its venom sacs are long gone, but its crushing strength is somehow greater than ever. , Wracked with rot, it wrecks and ruins. , Zombies have one speed: shamble. , Mastodons became extinct long ago, but foul forces of the Gurmag Swamp sometimes animate their decaying remains. The Sultai happily exploit such creatures but consider them inferior to their own necromantic creations. , "Now, *that's* a zombie!"
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen , For each one you see, ten see you. , He didn't hear the cries of the treefolk whose branches he snapped or of the elves caught underfoot. He had eyes only for the path ahead. , "We remember. We rise." , Great literature can transport the reader. , "End this. What I seek is far greater."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite , "It wandered slowly across the landscape, calling out in its lonely voice, but no other castles answered its cries."
—*Beyond the Great Henge* , "This sword is Sunrise. The other is Dawn. They mark the beginning of my days but the end of yours." , One of the forest's best protectors is the forest itself. , Those who understand the forest are free to harvest its bounty. , An assassin is a king's most trusted courier, ensuring his messages are heard by even the most unwilling recipients. , Hunter by instinct, weapon by training. , "Just as an Herbalist heals a wound, so must we heal the rift between Balduvia and Kjeldor."
—King Darien of Kjeldor , "Loyalty guides me. Pride compels me. Anger sustains me. And the pay isn't bad." , The trouble started when a street urchin bet a goblin he could ride one until the clock on Shilbo's Tower struck thirteen. , Some Gruul druids believe that boars are spawn of the great Ilharg, the mighty Raze-Boar who will one day rise and level the city. , "The maaka remain loyal to us in this time of strife. We don't even have to feed them—our enemies do."
—Nedja, Gruul shaman , "This city will perish, and the Gruul will cheer as the boar-god crushes the last bricks into dust."
—Nikya of the Old Ways , Joining a guild, even the Gruul, would mean giving up some of his independence. He'd rather smash what he wants to smash. , "If the system is broken, break the system."
—Domri Rade , The sly, stealthy warriors of the Slizt Clan survive by hiding in high ground and ambushing their enemies. Other Gruul call them skulkers and cowards, but only from a safe distance. , Gruul oracles see omens in all forms of destruction: the entrails of maaka's prey, the flight of vultures over a battlefield, the scattering of toppled stone. , "Tear down the city, lie by lie. Then throw it back at the liars, stone by stone."
—Domri Rade , "Take up the quill, and feel your future flow into the runes." , "Its gems didn't stop pulsating until they were completely removed."
—Tolarian research notes , Hobs bury their kin far from home. They believe the dry, open ground keeps hags from stealing the bones and gwyllions from stealing the spirits. , Unfettered by allegiance, driven by war. , "We have built a wall upon sand. The wall will vanish. The sand will remain."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , "Those urbanist cobble-roaches won't know what hit them!" , When the architects of Ravnica claim a structure will stand against a wurm, they never mention for how long. , To an explorer, a priceless treasure. To the crab, a rock to call home. , The Forsaken Ones haunt the ruins that flicker in and out of the spirit realm. Such sites are hard to find and even harder to loot. , City officials once sent twenty gleaming automatons to exterminate a nest of gremlins. They soon saw the error of their ways. , Not every intelligent being is interested in treasure and lost knowledge . . . or even the basics of speech. , "Strike those abominations down. Let their names rot with their remains."
—General Kudro , The Eldrazi continue to sweep through the wastes, compounding destruction that already seemed absolute. , From every shadow came the dull scratch of teeth on bones. , Called "stonefeathers" by many lowlanders, rukhs are thought to descend from a phoenix that sacrificed its flame for a body of stone. , The law is meant to ensure that people kill each other with only the utmost fairness. , "I like it here. You always get a little more for your mana."
—Chandra Nalaar , In the dim light beneath the vast trees of Deepglade, baloths prowl in search of prey. Their guttural calls are more felt than heard, but their attack scream carries for miles. , "When monsters walk, the earth knows its place and yields."
—Rielle, the Everwise , The Rubblebelt grows restless. , "To provoke the mountain is to invite the avalanche."
—Perisophia the philosopher , The Orzhov contract the Izzet to animate slum districts and banish them to the wastes. The Gruul adopt them and send them back to the city for vengeance. , Goblins' eager curiosity leads them to scavenging, petty theft, and the rigging of sleek pirate ships. Some stop at scavenging. , "I've got everything you'd ever need right here. Just give me some time to find it." , By the fourth funeral, the mooks had gotten pretty good at them. , "What did you catch today, my pet? Ah, it looks like a bit of vampire stuck between your teeth."
—Atla Palani, nest tender , "That's the first time I've seen the ground do the running."
—Captain Brinely Rage , Keld faced an apocalypse to fulfill a dire prophecy. Now Keldons have nothing left to believe in except themselves. , "They left in one piece. I can't speak to how they arrived."
—Rupirk, porter at the Rusted Anchor Inn , "Virtue is virtue, whatever the heart that nurtures it."
—Malacan, Vantress exile , "Ever try to count hyperactive schoolchildren while someone shouts random numbers in your ear? It's like that."
—Geetra, frustrated mage , Things of beauty are in constant peril. The riders whisk them to safety, ahead of the encroaching darkness. , As sharp as its bearer's words of faith. , The magic of the elves leaves its mark on the forest. The magic of the forest leaves its mark on the animals who live there. The animals of the forest leave their mark on all who trespass. , Scholars had puzzled for centuries over the ruins at Tal Terig. Its secrets had always lived within one rune-carved head. , When a changeling adopts a form no other changeling has taken, a rune appears in the caverns of Velis Vel to mark the event. , Inscribed with runes that predate the dragon, its horns possess their own ancient magic. , The litany of the infernal on his flesh pulses to the beating of his dark heart. , "Concentration is key. Without it, a mage conjures nothing but a splitting headache."
—Zur the Enchanter , In the hands of the open-minded, a runewing quill writes wisdom of its own. , The Sun Empire's most sacred sites are protected by more than prayers. , "What some call obsession, I call the quest for perfection." , Wirewood's beasts didn't seem to mind when the elves moved in. In fact, they hardly noticed them underfoot. , All creatures have an inner fire. Releasing it can be dangerous. , "I like a quick victory. More time to celebrate." , Cut off from the kakuriyo by the destruction of their honden, the zubera sought new ways to bring their secrets home. , Scarecrows only go so far in sending the message to stay away. , The Mardu charge reflects the dragon's speed—and its hunger. , Sometimes it's not for sustenance or to feed the dependence. Sometimes it's just to feel again. , "Limitless power is glorious until you gain limitless understanding."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor , Short lives lead to forbidden choices. , To a dryad, every tree in the forest is both a doorway and a window. , When generals gather their armies, healers gather their herbs. , "The wolves of our valley are bred to detest the scent of ghouls. For centuries they have kept our estates clear of such carrion."
—Olivia Voldaren , "How dull it is to pause, to make an end,/ To rust unburnished, not to shine in use,/ As though to breathe were life!"
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, "Ulysses" , "We consider rust a curable disease."
—Tarrin, Hammer-Tribe shaman , It has to deliberate a moment on the best way to break your face. , "It's a beautiful vision. Discarded debris is reborn as a singular entity."
—Urabrask the Hidden , It has an iron stomach. Literally. , A Bloodwort's blade is salted with blood and peppered with rust, seasoning and slaughtering in a single swipe. , "Behold nature's answer to the problem of society."
—Nikya of the Old Ways , Where herds have passed, the dented ground is lined with piles of rust. , Native to wide prairies and scrublands, falcons occasionally roost in dragon skeletons. , She wields a blade as bloodthirsty and elegant as herself. , "Bring forth the dead, their skull-grins and rattle-bones. We will feast upon their wailing ghosts."
—Silumgar, translated from Draconic , "Do try to pull your weight, Geralf. I feel like I'm doing everything."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa , A single battle affects countless others. , "For the survival of our people, every conflict must now end in retreat."
—Pythor, Mirran resistance , "This scum is barely worth the trouble." , "You may feel a slight sting." , The course of the falling star always ends in ruin. , They stay on the battlefield only long enough to consume the losers. , The warriors of the Blade Tribe charged the golem, twenty strong. They returned numbering ten . . . and a half. , It has eight lives' worth of hunger to satisfy. , "I hope the idiot who introduced these creatures to the jungle was their first meal."
—Opar, veteran guide , They sneer at the terrestrial dangers found on peaks and shores, eager to prove themselves against new and even mightier foes. , Most creatures grow out of their baby teeth, but sabertooth wyverns grow into theirs. , To a sabretooth, all men are mice. , "Our arrows are aimed not at the sacred behemoths but at those who dare to dream of such a trophy." , Her connection to the gargantuans puts her in line to become Anima, a sacred but daunting duty. , "The warriors deal in poison and fangs. We shamans remember why our ancestors crawled with their bellies to the earth." , Arrive for worship. Leave for war. , "Divine gifts are granted to those who are worthy."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , The anointed work the mines without pause, their cartouches instilling them with tireless purpose. , "You will not be trained here. You will be forged."
—Commander Yaszen , The knight knelt and prayed, first for the sanctity of his land and second for the strength to repel its invaders. , "No flame, no horror can sway me from my cause." , "Do not go there, do not go / unless you rise on wings, unless you walk on hooves."
—"Song to the Sun," Femeref song , "Over the silver mountains, Where spring the nectar fountains, There will I kiss The bowl of bliss; And drink my everlasting fill. . . ."
—Sir Walter Raleigh, "The Pilgrimage" , To see one is a good omen to the Cho-Arrim. , The pale deer are believed to have lived a thousand years, the pure white five hundred more. Those who seek them would gladly wander the wilds forever for the merest glimpse of these sacred beings. , "I raised my bow, and the wolf stared at me. Under its gaze, my finger would not release the string."
—Aref the Hunter , In recursive chess, one piece can capture another only after beating it in a game of recursive chess. , "A good lagac will carry you through thick and thin. A bad one … well, it's a tasty dinner."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter , Horns of hoarfrost grow every night, gleam at dawn, and melt by dusk. , "Don't worry. I know the drill." , "First blood isn't as important as last blood."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , "Victory in the pits is almost as rewarding as the methods I use to achieve it." , Not everyone should take joy in their work. , "I will catch you, child of the sun. I will drink your life and leave you a husk, discarded in the shadows." , "I'm amused by wasted effort when it's not my own."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , Not even death will keep her from her mission. , "These bracers were worn by my father and by his mother before him. Boggart fangs have shattered on them. Cinder flames have withered at their touch. While I wear them, the safehold will not fall." , As she shepherds the faithful, the angel's radiance is a shield of salvation. , Elves search for sources of beauty in a nighted world. Meanwhile, the nighted world searches for the blood of elves. , In the blink of an eye, she strode from deep snow to dusty waste. From the crease of light behind her, a voice rang hollow: "Saffi, wait for me . . . ." , From their mountain aeries, aven scholars see far more than the distant horizon. , These winged warriors meditate in flight, tracing mandalas in the clouds. , Clairvoyants across Dominaria were driven mad by the overload from the widening time rifts, while other random folk gained the gift of future sight. , "There is no secret that cannot be sold." , Though it was laid to waste by the brothers, many schools of magic trace their origins to the College of Lat-Nam, including the first Tolarian Academy. , "I see destruction, suffering, and one tormented glimmer of hope." , Even now, Shaila's descendants proudly occupy the greenway that she refused to relinquish to the Consulate. , Ask a merfolk even a simple question and the answer is a journey beyond the known. , "No one petal claims beauty for the lotus." , Some owls house the souls of archmages of ages past. , "Curse these merrows and their meddling! Since coming near the river, I can't so much as sneeze without being soaked."
—Ashling the Pilgrim , "Those who know do not talk. Those who talk do not know."
—Lao Tzu, *Tao Te Ching*
(trans. Feng and English) , Godtrackers found new pantheons of beast-gods beyond Naya's borders. , "Forget what you have learned from other teachers. I bring you the truth." , The streets of Ravnica are full of former guild members now using their institutional skills for personal gain. , "My bowstring hums in tune with the song of the Worldsoul."
—Alcarus, Selesnya sagittar , His arrows whistle like a serpent's hiss. , The Sagu Jungle's thick undergrowth conceals even the largest predators—if they wish to remain hidden. , "From the first touch, I know exactly what the metal wants to be." , "Track the source of those thopters," Saheeli told her creation. "And feel free to snack on as many as you want." , Clients who cheat the sailmonger make an impact on the rest. , The rising tide of Orazca's plunder lifted all ships. , "Industry without artistry is just a fancy way to fill the junkyard." , The passing of the sai presages the end of the old clan and the ascent of the new. , There were no tombstones in orochi territory. Slain warriors were buried with a tree sapling, so they would become a part of the forest after death. , "Scouts of the Sakura Tribe spent two years wandering the forest to learn every leaf and tree. That knowledge was called upon during the Kami War to ensure the orochi's survival."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , If an elf can dream it, a dwarf can build it, and a gremlin can eat it. , Dominaria erodes with each passing gust. , He remembers a past of light and healing. But he lives the bitter present—parching salt, scouring wind, and the withering heat of the desert. , Only death breeds in stagnant water.
—Urborg saying , "Soldiers win battles, but supplies win wars."
—Kadri, Abzan caravan master , Every attack is a test of your defenses. Every hit marks the map of your defeat. , "What was taken shall be restored."
—Arathel, elvish queen , "The next model should be able to achieve a rescue without self-destruction."
—Sargis Haz, artificer , The greatest treasure of the deep is an echo from above. , "I'm not saying it's dangerous work. I'm just saying don't sign up if you have plans for your seventieth birthday." , A hermit crab goes through many shells in its lifetime, and not all are natural in origin. , Esper artificers never imagined that one day their scraps would be pressed against their soft and fragile throats. , "Powders and potions are nothing compared to faith."
—Baris, Serra Inquisitor , "I can preserve ten lives by taking one." , Knit bone, darn flesh, Stitch skin, weave breath.
—Samite healing ritual , Samite alchemists extracted aromatic traces of healing minerals from the residue of the receding salt dunes. , Healers ultimately acquire the divine gifts of spiritual and physical wholeness. The most devout are also granted the ability to pass physical wholeness on to others. , Our war is against suffering, not against those who cause it.
—Samite creed , From the moment they swore their oaths, they belonged to their lord, sword and soul. , Samut's war was intensely personal. Every hour she faced enemies she once loved as friends and horrors she once revered as gods. , "I'll fight no more just for the honor of dying. The afterlife will have to wait." , You need only raise your spear to receive this blessing. , "The peasants labor for my profit. I approve." , Cats prowl the corridors of Avacyn's churches in search of devils or signs of their mischief. , "Drannith gives no quarter to traitors."
—General Kudro , Serra told them to guard Urza as he healed. Five years they stood. , As their supplies of etherium dwindled, mechanists sent gargoyles farther and farther afield in search of salvage. , "Protect our mother in her womb." , Truth lurks in the depths,
Invisible from the shore.
Knowledge inundates. , Come and rest here, beyond the constraints of space and time. , Beneath bright blossoms
Verdant with spring's rich bounty,
The soul blooms in song. , Rage smolders within,
An all-consuming wildfire
Burning fear to ash , Renounce all limits,
False chains binding potential.
Power knows no bounds. , An untroubled mind
Dwells in perfect harmony
With a peaceful heart. , "These halls are sacred. You *will* be silent." , The Sanctum Seekers were the first of the knightly orders to cross the sea and are still the most zealous. , "When history becomes too mournful, even good souls may choose to forget."
—Shalai, voice of Plenty , "We've run aground sandbars before, but today, a sandbar ran aground us."
—Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate , You are not prey until a predator knows of your existence. , Treacherous and unpredictable currents around Tolaria earned the nickname "serpent wakes." , The sands of Amonkhet can be as much a boon as a bane. It depends entirely on which way the wind blows. , With heat, sand can form a delicate work of art; with pressure, an impenetrable bulwark. , "Those who live by the sword will die by the sword. I choose to do neither." , It counts down your last few moments of sanity. , "But once, with a magician's help, Time was stopped and Day stood still."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , It drifts through the streets as a breeze of collective sighs, wilting the bustle with dreams and heavy eyelids. , That which endures, survives. , A mastodon's path always leads to an oasis. , "Sad what passes for a dragon among the Silumgar." , "Two or three tons of rock can really get you down—and keep you there."
—Kamahl, pit fighter , "I used to describe something stable as 'rock solid.' So much for that expression."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight , Even the landscape turned against Sarsour, first rising up and pelting him, then rearranging itself so he could no longer find his way. , "May our foes choke upon its horns!"
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior , The bombardment of sand disorients, chokes, and ultimately tenderizes its prey. , Cantankerous and territorial, sandwurms claim even the skies above their dunes. , "Sangrite is the dragon's beating heart. Little wonder, then, that so many fools' chests burst trying to contain it."
—Sarkhan Vol , Some believe the spiky crystal called sangrite is concentrated dragon's breath. Others think it's crystallized life energy. The clans care only about the power it unleashes when crushed. , The living is all it eats. , New cults rising in Nephalia have found allies in the Stromkirk bloodline, whose progenitor worships ancient and terrible forces. , "Blood is constant. Every drop I drink, someone must bleed."
—Vradeen, vampire nocturnus , For the Legion of Dusk, the Immortal Sun is a source of eternal life. When they reclaim it, they will no longer be forced to subsist on the blood of the wicked. , "Father of Machines! Your filigree gaze carves us, and the scars dance upon our grateful flesh."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures* , "Drink from the vein? How provincial."
—Lord Duchorvin , "Our fealty to guilds dooms us. The old gods shall resurface. Our skins will wave upon the guild-masts over emptied streets, and our bones will clatter in the wind."
—Ilromov, traveling storyteller , "As the sun sets to make way for dawn, so we turn to darkness to bring about the coming salvation." , His mind was lost long before his flesh. , The last thought to go through their victim's mind is the one they tear out through the scalp. , Her plans may yet bear fruit. , Sapphire drakes can communicate over great distances, their calls resonating in the gems fixed in their skulls. , "The subject's wings are clearly vestigial. We suspect the gems somehow keep it aloft."
—Tolarian research notes , Within the walls of the floating city, Saprazzan wealth is like Saprazzan water: abundant, free-flowing, and accessible to all. , The Saprazzans excel at both tactics: hit *and* run. , Some quick dagger work and then back to the sea—that's the Saprazzan way. , "My army took centuries to gather," remarked Urza. "Yavimaya seems to conjure hers out of thin air." , Thallids herd saprolings from place to place in search of detritus to feed them. , "A horrible sight, yes, but the sounds . . . Its twanging tendons and grinding gears are almost musical."
—Brudiclad, Telchor engineer , "You once brought havoc to my home and ruined my mind. I'm here to return the favor, Bolas." , "I am most myself when I am least human." , The people of Tarkir speak of an ancient legend, of the dragon-man called Sarkhan who was greatest of all khans. , Sarkhan gazed on the world around him, the dragons sweeping through its skies, and joy kindled like a fire in his soul. , The past still lives within its pages, waiting for its time to come again. , "I hold the seed of our new beginning." , In Ravnica's wilder districts, nature still stirs, and its protectors still mind their posts. , "The threads of magic that protect this place were woven by my will." , His heart, the coal; his eye, the spark; his hand, the whirling flame. , "Some of my kin dance for themselves, without greater purpose. Nylea gives me purpose, and with it strength." , "Any festival you can walk away from wasn't worth attending in the first place." , "Xenagos has become what he once despised: a tyrant and an oppressor." , "When I asked my commander the reward for killing that prancing nuisance, he told me, 'None! I want to kill him myself!'"
—Phrogas, soldier of Akros , A satyr is bound by nothing—not home, not family, not loyalty. , It's hard to keep a satyr down, even in the Underworld. , The first satyr to wake after a revel must search for the site of the next one. , "Within each of us, the potential for great power waits to be released."
—Zija, Simic mutationist , "Selecting the proper beeble is the key to a good sauté. The pinker the fur and the heartier the yelp, the more succulent the beeble will be when you pop it in your mouth."
—Asmoranomardicadaistinaculdacar, *The Underworld Cookbook* , "Purity of magic can only come from purity of the land. How can a meal nourish if the ingredients are spoiled?" —Sidaine of Savaen , Some beasts are born not of a mother, but of magic. , "I have no patience for sipping blood from crystal goblets. I want to bite and tear." , These omnivorous gorillas have no qualms about a diet composed of equal parts fruit and Phyrexians. , Jund is a world as cruel as those who call it home. Their brutal struggles scar the land even as it carves them in its image, a vicious circle spiraling out of control. , Some elves believe that their survival instincts are born of many cycles of reincarnation. , A Gruul berserker is never unarmed. , "I thought its back was turned!"
"A centaur has two backs!" , Nine generations of metalworking skill are no match for nine hundred pounds of rage. , "Nature is the ultimate mindless destroyer, capable of power and ferocity no army can match, and the Gruul follow its example."
—Trigori, Azorius senator , The same crystals that root deep enough to pierce Savai's catacombs also soar high enough to change its weather. , The giant tigers of Savai prefer to hunt at daybreak, when the crystals' warning glow is masked by the light of dawn. , A crackling roar is the last sound many hunters hear. , Broad prairies feed the human sanctuary of Drannith and conceal a network of caverns where giant cats make their dens. , "One alone is fearsome; one among many is unstoppable."
—Benalish proverb , "Now is not the time for your light to fade." , Who consistently managed to win. , Nothing's more valuable than perfect timing. , The merrow took a moment for herself. She never gave it back. , "Nature's most raw beauty is the circle: perfect in its continuance, with no break between death and life." , None of the other villagers dare venture into the wilds, so she feeds the whole hamlet herself. , "You will sharpen your teeth on my enemies' bones," Maraxus promised them, and his ogres cheered. , "The only roads I wish to see are those beaten flat by wild hooves." , For the Gruul, bone-crushing rage is the first priority. Accuracy comes in a distant ninetieth. , They inflict pain to forget their own and break foes to feel whole. , "Shiv may be surrounded by water, but the mountains go far deeper."
—Fire Eye, viashino bey , "It's a witch's trick, this cauldron full of pain. I wouldn't dump it on any but the wicked." , Demons massacre. Devils annoy. , "This has nothing to do with what you know and everything to do with what I wish."
—Volrath , The Temur believe that scaldkin are born when eruptions melt the frozen whispers of sleeping ancestors. , "With Rashida's blades, my guiding vision and the luck of the blessed, today we will free Mangara!"
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , "Your bravery honors us all."
—Dromoka, translated from Draconic , Surviving an encounter with it is proof enough that an initiate is ready for the Trial of Strength. , "Say, what rhymes with 'run for your lives'?"
—Ku-Ku, akki poet , The wurms become so big, a single scale can be used as a roof for a human dwelling. , The justice of dragons demands more than just an eye for an eye. , "Ever onward, ever skyward." , "Keep your flammables out of reach."
—Kerin, watch sergeant , Silence costs extra. Breaking it costs extra still. , "Enjoy your deception, Vuel," Gerrard said as Volrath's features melted from the dead shapeshifter. "I'll count this one as practice." , "Whether we like it or not, our arrival has altered the landscape."
—Malcolm, navigator of the *Belligerent* , "What is a scar? A sign of courage in the face of danger? A mere trick of flesh? Or a constant reminder of agonizing pain, and the follies of war."
—Illulia of Nighthearth , "The face of mediocrity is wrapped in anointed linen. Aspire to a better end."
—Epnokep, vizier of Bontu , "Rejoice, eyeblight. In your last hours above the earth, those who bury you will finally make you beautiful." , Her poppets bring joy to the truly depraved. , There was more malice in its button eyes than should have been possible in something that had never known life. , "Fear rules those weak enough to accept it."
—Greven *il*-Vec , Fields of battle turn to fields of grain. , "There is only one way of life in Jund: feed on the weak until you are cut down by something stronger."
—Jorshu of Clan Nel Toth , It's not eager to lose the *other* eye. , For disfigured elves, there are few choices beyond death or nettlevine. , Some words are too important to trust to something as fragile as memory. , Larger and more cunning than most Goblins, Scarwood Goblins are thankfully found only in isolated pockets. , To treefolk's sense of time, ages pass as hours. They stood as witnesses to the apocalypse, the years of which they saw as one cacophonous, ultra-destructive moment. , "They groaned, they stirred, they all uprose, Nor spake, nor moved their eyes; It had been strange, even in a dream, To have seen those dead men rise."
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" , "Should your chosen emissary be able to fluctuate triharmonic pentodes, however unlikely, I shall shunt excess negavolt radicals." , To train her elves for war, Mayael would drop a sackful of acorns from the tree canopy. Each archer tried to split as many as possible before the acorns hit the forest floor below. , From the seeds of faith, great forests grow. , "The Phyrexians have progressed," admired Urza. "Their parts are interchangeable." , Dragons consider drakes to be mockeries of their perfection, destroying them on sight. , "One piece? Now there's a hundred!" , When the last scrap of flesh is scoured away, the Curse of Wandering ends. Then the dead may sleep. , Desecrating the dead is a convenient way for harpies to expand their foul collections. , In nature, not a single bone or scrap of flesh goes to waste. , The beetles feed not on the flesh of corpses but on the metal, grinding out the iron and steel to add to their own bulky shells. , "Whether or not you will bow to me is not open to debate. The question is, will I ever let you rise?"
—Fridius, telemin master , "With this scepter, smite your enemies."
—Scepter inscription , One goes to Tidehollow either to forget or to be forgotten. Either way, the scullers will oblige. , "The road to truth has many branches, and so must the cane with which I walk it."
—Voln the Elder , "One for you, one for me. What could be more fair?"
—Kethis, the Hidden Hand , "I ran the experiment through the brain of a schizophrenic lab-goblin. My burners' flames fell asleep while the beakers jumped about and shattered. Success!"
—Myznar, Izzet psychomancer , She asks pointed questions of the dead who wait for Athreos, learning of life from those who are about to leave it. , "The path of the stars is as reliable as the instruments that measure them." , "I study the past to find hope for the future." , Some schools aren't worth getting into. , After the terrible retribution visited upon Lat-Nam, this school of mages chose to hide from the eyes of the world. , "There is nothing so free as the spring river born of winter's ice."
—Nitula, the Hunt Caller , Vampires are now masters of their own fates, commanders of their own legions. , "I am the blood of the ur-dragon, coursing through all dragonkind." , It has a hundred thousand extinctions to avenge. , For hundreds of years Ugin slept, encased in the cocoon of stone and magic Sarkhan had created using a shard of a Zendikari hedron. As Ugin lay dormant, his spectral guardians kept vigil. , Nothing beats the lizard's shear power. , "Fire cleanses as well as destroys; that is the nature of change."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , Each small blaze she sets jogs her memory, letting her piece together the mystery of her own fiery end. , As the blaze raced towards her, Syr Ameril closed her eyes and pictured Castle Ardenvale so her last thoughts would be of home. , Lift your spear as you might lift your glass, and toast your enemy. , "Have you seen your face? Trust me, this will be an improvement." , "Lava flows where it pleases. I'm just happy to be along for the ride!" , "Yes, she can be a nuisance. But at least my tea never gets cold."
—Marlan Farthwald, innkeeper , "Your fields will turn as black as a ghoul's tongue and fire shall be your only harvest."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum , "Borborygmos's elemental launched an assault, but the Izzet wards held and experiments continue."
—Skyknight report on the Rubblebelt , Like a volcano, it too can erupt without warning. , A single molten cord links it to the subterranean furnaces, drawing heat and metal from beneath Kuldotha. Until that bond is cut, it carves a swath of raw destruction. , Late at night, ululations echo from deep under Shiv, as the wurms sing of times older than humanity. , undefined , "With no flesh, there is no pain, no hesitation, no emotion of any kind. He is crafted perfection."
—Tezzeret , "Once I was human. Now I am far more." , Searching the future for answers often leads to further questions. , "Our people and our very lands disappear as if they never were. We no longer fight for glory, or honor. We battle now for the right to exist."
—General Tazri, allied commander , To members of the cult of Erebos, gold-infused tattoos symbolize the inevitable grasp of the god of death. , Stensian villagers mourned the loss of human life. Thraben vampire slayers mourned the loss of living wood. , Doom casts its own flickering shadow. , "May all the cairns of Jund be toppled."
—Meren of Clan Nel Toth , "Where a once-proud human city stood, only the ruins of Numai remain, deep amid rotting bamboo and plagued by oni."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , "The union of the oil and necrogen has produced many pleasing reactions."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , "Soon I will sleep, eyes closing to a world tarnished with flesh, and then wake to a polished vision."
—Sharuum , When Purphoros cleans the ashes from his forge, entire cities vanish. , "The answer's in here somewhere!" , "I have chosen my path. Who will walk it with me?"
—Eladamri , "There is no tactic I enjoy more than ambushing the ambushers." , "I am in my element: the element of surprise."
—Mogai, Sultai scout , Feed it steel. Feed it gold. Feed it bone. In the belly of the furnace, the flames know no difference. , It possesses no intelligence, only counter-intelligence. , Sometimes a little chaos is in order. , Once a tool of kithkin farmers, scarecrows of all shapes now skitter and lurch across Shadowmoor, animated by residual rustic magics. , Smart artificers clean up after themselves. , Junk heaps have rats, but scrapheaps have goblins. , Some machines refuse to accept their own obsolescence. , "Where a lesser mind sees junk, I see infinite potential." , "The cathars killed my skaabs down below. Let's see how high their swords can reach."
—Ludevic, necro-alchemist , Trespassers are welcome to try. , "Squealstokers! Build me a glorious pile of Mirran metal. Then add yourselves to the pile."
—Furnace boss, sector 11 , He's got an axe to grind. , Shhh . . . , "My dragonlord's lightning will dance upon your bones!" , There's no escaping an enemy that lives inside your head. , It's important to face your inner demons . . . unless they're the kind of demons that can kill you. , undefined , "A shrill creature that delights in the misery of others—what's not to love?"
—Braids, dementia summoner , They were master fishers, but their seas are now the streets and their catch, the goblins that run pell-mell from the screeching in the sky. , "They are called 'fowl' for a reason."
—Mirri of the Weatherlight , Its wings are a heavenly inferno that sets the world ablaze. , It's adaptively deaf to its own cries. , Its screeching is the sound of you losing your mind. , "What wears down my people most, I think, is not the danger, but the endless screeching outside our camp."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol , "The best answers solve more than one riddle."
—Kefnet, god of knowledge , "History is a potent weapon."
—Karn, silver golem , Words to bless the eye that reads them, telling of a future beyond the reach of fear. , "Our stories define our reality."
—Ugin , Words no eyes should see, telling of things no sane mind could fathom. , The words from which language sprang, the knowledge from which thought was born, the story from which history was woven. , Kapsho merfolk have infiltrated fortresses as remote as the desert citadel in Sunari in their relentless quest for arcane knowledge. , When leonin settlers abandon their homes to the nim, items of value are often left behind. , Yell for help, and that may answer. , "It was right here a second ago . . ." , The only sound was the gentle clicking of the faeries' wings. Then those intruders who were still standing turned and fled. One thing was certain: they didn't think the scryb were very funny anymore. , An artificer once dropped one in a vault full of coins. She has yet to find it. , "Survival rule 781: There are always more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter , "Survival rule 782: There are *always* more scute bugs."
—Zurdi, goblin shortcutter , With five lenses on its "head," it sees the world in a range of colors beyond ordinary perception. , A masterwork of spite, inspired by madness. , A living fossil active after eons of dormancy. , The Scuzzback gang scavenges rusty armor covered in barbed protrusions. No threat is more effective than the threat of infection. , Eldrazi are not the leopard's preferred prey, but they are better than no prey at all. , Instead of adapting to its environment, it adapts its environment to itself. , Where the Quicksilver Sea laps over the Razor Fields, the landscape reflects the suns' fading hope. , Seacoast drakes have been known to follow ships for hundreds of miles, waiting to snap up garbage, bait, and the occasional sailor. , Where air meets water, fish meets talon. , Where the light falls dim and blue on broken ships, secrets lie unclaimed. , The Sea Gate Expeditionary House was founded after the discovery of the Skyclave over Tazeem. Now its banners fly over every corner of Zendikar. , "When you are battered and exhausted, look up and be inspired by its resolve."
— Tazri , "He's a living library. He remembers everything our band of explorers has seen, and we can use that to our advantage."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader , "The secret entrance should be near." , undefined , Once a center for knowledge, Sea Gate now serves as a reminder of what was lost. , "What has neither mouth nor throat, yet swallows captain, crew, and boat?"
—Sphinx's riddle , Instead of performing their daily devotions, Heliod's acolytes spent the morning picking strands of kelp off the altar. , "Your recent work is an inspiration. I have the utmost respect for your approach, and your craft is impeccable. At your convenience, I would be honored to collaborate on a project."
—Ludevic, letter to Geralf , "They can't feel pain. They just wiggle 'cause they're scared." , An ancient nemesis rendered harmless long ago. , It's good to know more about your enemy's fate than your enemy does. , "When the waves pick up, either you find your feet or you lose your lunch." , "Find the dens of evil and flood them with light."
—Hulo, the Penitent Wanderer , "A basilisk's gaze is effective, but disposing of physical remains is a tiresome task. It's far more discreet to dissolve one's victim entirely."
—Szadek , After the fourth time Chandra left a place engulfed in flames, she decided to just go ahead and make it her thing. , "I am the simplifier, the root that drags all artifice to earth."
—Seal inscription , "I am the unraveler, the loosened thread that will not hold."
—Seal inscription , When does majestic become ominous? , "I'd rather see the guilds contend together with words in the halls of power, than in the streets with swords."
—Jace Beleren , Water is life. Or perhaps it is just something to wash it down with. , Skybridges from across Kylem converge at the grand stadium of Valor's Reach. , undefined , There's no rest for a Keldon. , It rises with the fall of darkness, seeking souls to extinguish. , "And would you care to explain why your satchel is radiating an aura of unstable energy?" , It emerged from the coldest depths of Lochmere only to face the fires of Irencrag. , Purphoros's blessing: sometimes a boon, sometimes a bane. Always ablaze. , Zemoo found out the hard way that "inflammable" and "flammable" mean the same thing. , "Light can lay bare our fears. It can also make them go away."
—Nazra of the Stone Havens , "When I meditate I see the world as it should be. All that does not fit, I remove."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage , "This is a battle of pawns, for the highest stakes imaginable."
—Urza , Sometimes you die a glorious death with your sword held high. Sometimes you're just target practice. , When the other soldiers of Zhalfir fall, the askaris will yet stand. , "The first wind of ascension is Forger, burning away impurity."
—*Keld Triumphant* , "The sky is like another sea. It teems with currents, life, and endless possibility." , "Who's the crazy one now!?"
—Torgle, mountaintop boatmaker , Legend has it that Serpents used to be bigger, but how could that be? , "Today a seashell fell from the empty sky here in Kinymu, a hundred leagues from the sea. I'm torn—shall I carve a woman or a bird?"
—Isel, master carver , For wisdom's sake, it was built high to gaze on all things. For glory's sake, it was built high as a testament of power. For strength's sake, it was built high to repel all attacks. , It always has the home-turf advantage. , "I don't know that I'll win every fight. But I have faith, and that's carried me this far." , There are only two rules of tactics: never be without a plan, and never rely on it. , "The benefits of peace far outweigh the pride of Generals."
—King Darien of Kjeldor , "Awake, and lift your faces to the sun." , The seeds of new life take root in the soil of old. , "It rose above our heads, above the ship, and still higher yet. No foggy, ice-laden sea in the world could frighten me more."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , "No one can catch what won't be caught."
—Kakra, sea troll , Lumengrid, site of the Knowledge Pool, source of vedalken arcana. , "I've seen those Trolls devour a drowning sailor faster than his lungs could fill with water."
—Zeki, Reef Pirate , Protected by glamers and guile, Glen Elendra harbors the elusive Oona, queen of the fae. , The greatest gift is the opportunity to right one's wrongs. , "I see where you're going with that. I don't like it."
—Dierk, geistmage , "The cornfields promise a good yield this season."
—Radwick, farmer of Gatstaf , The bright tunnel sometimes leads back to life. , It suddenly dawned on Jorin that farming was quite a noble profession. , Vindr stormchasers believe that the same ancient forces that move the winds can also move mortal minds and hearts. , The Order of the Widget doesn't believe in traveling light. , It is all the things that humanity was not meant to know. , Rakshasa trade in secrets, amassing wealth from their careful revelation. , There is no shortage of illegal salvage in Ghirapur, nor of those who are willing to profit from it. , "The veil between the living and the dead is so very thin that the whispers of the ancients can finally be heard."
—Amalric of Midvast Hall , Stolen knowledge can never be stolen back. , "You know it's a great show when the Azorius arrest the props, too!"
—Judith, the Scourge Diva , "The Shifting Wastes provide our clan eternal protection. It is our duty to return the favor."
—Kadri, Dromoka warrior , Thakolides the Mighty
Slayer of minotaurs
Vanquisher of giants
Killed by a scorpion
—Inscription on an Akroan grave , Their flesh is as sodden as the fens in which they live, oozing to fill any wound and squishing to absorb any blow. , The stench in the hovel was overpowering; something loathsome was cooking. Occasionally something surfaced in the thick paste, but my host would casually push it down before I could make out what it was. , The problem with a liquid that can dissolve anything is finding something to carry it in. , He bids his minions rise from their graves to their knees. , Ancient lore locked in a mind driven mad is just as safe as when it was locked deep underground. , "Her voice is the wilderness, savage and pure."
—Kamahl, druid acolyte , She whispered a prayer for strength, and her wishes wafted away like seeds on the wind. , It is a reminder that spring will always follow winter. , "May you shade three generations of seedlings." , "I have hidden from the machinations of Zhalfir for centuries. Why should I join your campaign?"
—Jolrael , Beneath the beauty of light and seed is the might of Vitu-Ghazi. , "If you ask me, those root-lovers value mindless dogma over progress."
—Trivaz, Izzet mage , With a sadness and a sense of hope, Senka left the colony of her birth and, with her attendants, set out to serve as broodmistress, founder of a new colony. , The hippo grows wings to fight the condor.
—Nantuko teaching , The Trial of Knowledge challenges and broadens the minds of initiates. , Seekers spend their lives protecting a home they rarely visit. , "I don't know where my destiny lies, but I know it isn't here." , Dusk follows the light. , "The horizon is the perpetual ideal, the constant promise of hope."
—Nissa Revane , "In my downtime I used to paint the vistas. Now the vistas disappear faster than my downtime." , "The truth? It's been here all along. The Hours as we understood them are lies." , A light to bring hope in dark times. , "The shadow travels toward the apex. I predict we will soon see the true measure of darkness." , "What is this that is neither future nor past?" , "Flamekin death rites are elaborate and spectacular affairs. Their greatest fear is death in obscurity."
—Tollek Worldwatcher, journal , If your flesh can withstand the flame, the spirit of the dragon will burn within your soul. , The list of things a krotiq eats is as long as the krotiq itself. , "If only we could so easily leave behind those parts of ourselves that pain us."
—Crovax , When Worzel summoned Segovian angels to fight Thomil's Gargantikari gnats, the ensuing battle numbered among the Multiverse's least destructive. , "Leviathan, too! Can you catch him with a fish-hook or run a line round his tongue?"
—*The Bible*, Job 41:1 , "In a war for survival, Dominaria itself became a weapon. The malice is gone, but the danger remains."
—Jhoira , "Trying to stop it would be foolish. If you feel it coming—run!"
—Sergeant Ryda , The ground shakes when he walks. His customers shake if they're late with his fee. , The shaman opened the earth beneath their feet, trapping the survivors within the crevices of Ayagor for Atarka to devour at her leisure. , "Shiv is a restless land. It heaves ash, bleeds lava, and scabs over in black obsidian."
—*The First Eruption* , "The land here seems to go out of its way to kill you."
—Chandra Nalaar , Natural disasters in Ravnica are largely nullified by the Izzet. Unnatural disasters, on the other hand, happen all of the time. , "It is not in me to tread lightly."
—Ryda, geomancer , "Life up here is simple. Adapt to the ways of the mountains and they will reward you. Fight them and they will end you."
—Kezim, prodigal pyromancer , "If you would taste the wisdom of the oni, be prepared to salt it with your blood."
—Kiku, Night's Flower , The time between spotting a leonin shikari and feeling its claws is just time enough to draw your last breath. , "Sheathe your sword, warrior, lest ye fall on it when stricken."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , undefined , The orcs believe Sek'Kuar still lives in the Karplusan Mountains, gathering his dead army, intent on revenge. , "I of all people know that memory is not a safe place to hide valuables."
—Jace Beleren , "How thoughtful of the Legion to train its soldiers to fit our spell's specifications."
—Nefara, Dimir agent , "I am light. I am dark. I must give my life to serve; not even death can release me." , "Break it if you must. The loss of one relic is nothing next to the value of enriching us all."
—Suniel the Woodwise , "Let the example of the fallen inspire us all to greater courage." , "The clamor of the city drowns all voices. But together we can sing a harmony that will resonate from Ravnica's tallest spires to her deepest wells." , Enter and rejoice! The Conclave stands united, open to one and all. , A mark of unity when you want one; a fierce guardian when you need one. , "Think of the locket as a seed you bear, spreading life from Vitu-Ghazi across all of Ravnica."
—Heruj, Selesnya hierophant , "What's their strike range, you ask? Let's put it this way: sagittars aim their bows using *maps*."
—Otak, Tin Street shopkeep , Ravnicans still tell tales about the Battle of Sumala where four Selesnya sentries held off an entire clan of Gruul warriors. , The symbol of the Conclave is one of unity, with tree supporting sun and sun feeding tree. , It sees itself in all of its creations. , "Be sure to get the tree in the picture." , "Worse than watching the cruelest deed is watching it done by your own hand."
—Baihir, Dromoka mage , "If I fail to offer myself, we will surely be overrun. My fate would be the same." , She raised him from an orphaned pup and gave him a life of love. With his last act, he thanked her. , "There is always more to give." , "The mist whispers to those who know it to be more than a mundane fog." , "Lady Wren is the one merchant in Keyhole Downs who isn't running a scam."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar , "Killing is easy. Just wrap your hand around the haft, and wrap your enemy around the blade." , "The Lowlands refuse to suffer at the whims of the High City." , Selvala's arrival never goes unnoticed. , Forged from what it forges. , "This Dovin Baan came from nowhere. Watch him. Read his letters. He is more than he appears."
—Lazav , "The Senate griffins overhead used to make people think of order and safety. Not anymore."
—Lavinia , "The penalty for idleness is death. The penalty for disputing the penalty is death." , "They are the eyes of the Baron, and they know your fears."
—Ihsan's Shade , Empires rise and fall, but evil is eternal. , More, more, more! , With clarity of vision comes clarity of function. , They call it "stitcher's anesthesia," a spell to deaden the senses while the mad doctors begin their grisly work. , "Unusual. Security also worth stealing."
—Dack Fayden , The portcullis is superfluous. , Through its watchful gaze, all slivers may see. , Some say the valley of Glen Elendra is mythical, and that rumors of its existence are nothing but a faerie prank. Others say it is the fae's most fiercely guarded secret. , "Your first reaction may be to stand very still and hope she didn't see you. Trust me, she did."
—Endril, Kalonian naturalist , The built-in obstacles force competitors to think three moves ahead. , They are the masters of your mind. , When Athreos gathers the newly dead to be ferried across the Five Rivers That Ring the World, he sends skeletal griffins to fetch those who stray. , "As long as each side thinks it can win, the balance holds, and the mage-rings stand."
—Alhammarret , Light as a feather. Sharp as an angel's wrath. , She parts the clouds so sunlight can reach even the darkest lairs and duskiest tombs. , "Angels? My feelings remain unchanged."
—Liliana Vess , "Only when my sword lies idle shall I rejoice." , Summoners of efreeti remember only the power of command, never the sting of regret. , "Even a dragon is humble as a kitten if it thinks itself a slave." , "If magic is your crutch, cast it aside and learn to walk without it."
—Teferi , "A great warrior studies many different disciplines and takes the best from each."
—Gideon Jura , "A sacrifice made in peace is worth a dozen made in panic."
—Orim, Samite healer , While Lazav schemed and Niv-Mizzet researched, Trostani sought the future in the whispers of the past. , "I can give you strength, but you'll have to bring your own courage." , The armies paused, silent, as the warriors reflected on the sunsets of their youth. , "Just think of me as the storm before the calm."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , Knights get the glory. Soldiers get things done. , Under Yavimaya's peaceful facade beat the hearts of many savage beasts. , "Gleams like moonlight on water drew us through the storm and toward our doom."
—Siona, captain of the *Pyleas* , Venom is nature's way of redressing the imbalance between weak and mighty. , A hiss before dying. , An angel's blessing prepares a soldier for war better than a thousand military drills. , The angel remembers her past lives like dreams. Her song held up meadows. Her blade drove back darkness. Her wings carried her across the ages. , Faith in Serra is its own reward. , "Serra isn't dead. She lives on through me." , "Those who endure in the face of suffering, those whose faith shines long in evil days, they shall see salvation."
—*Song of All*, canto 904 , "Serra, like Feroz, is long since dead. But remember, Daria: her spirit shall survive so long as the Homelands do."
—Taysir , Theologians now believe the Ancestor was another divine form of Serra. , One light, one blade, one purpose.
—Vow of the Serra Paladins , "Rise, and I will show you how to run without flagging, fight without raging, and fly without wings." , "The light of an angel's glance is warm, but her fixed stare blinds and burns."
—Calexis, deacon of the New Order of Serra , The touch of Serra's angels bears hopes aloft and empowers noble causes. , She watches over the city just as Serra watches over all. , Sphinxes drink from the mystic meres of Serra's realm, where their keen eyes watch reflections of what is and what is yet to come. , A fragile cocoon of dreaming will. , "Whereas I was created to protect, the biskelion was created to destroy."
—Karn, silver golem , Each scorpion's venom is unique, thwarting sanctuary healers' attempts to develop an antidote. , "The humans are useful in their way, but they must be commanded as the builder commands the stone. Be soft with them, and they will become soft."
—Radiant, archangel , The serum from the blinkmoths they gather greases the joints of witch engines. , Serum was once derived from Mirrodin's blinkmoths, offering visions of inspiration. Now it is pulled from Phyrexian inkmoths, yielding visions of perfection. , "My cause is power, and at the altar of power I will gladly forfeit my soul." , "Creation without connection to nature is just manufacture." , Life is most precious to those who have already lost it. , "Volrath is a harsh master. My reflection is a constant reminder of that."
—Greven *il*-Vec , "The judges really put them through their paces, but they prevailed. I think they even impressed Head Judge Tezzeret."
—Ritika, artificer , The Consulate prizes innovation when it is dependable and replicable. , His family was the first to reach out to the human monks. He soon knew as many koans as he did blade strikes. , The envoy spoke, and Sidisi replied. , "Your god teaches you only how to kill. Karametra teaches me to defend what I hold dear. That is why I will prevail." , "A blessing is not a gift. It is a duty." , Most griffins must be caught and broken into the service of the polis. Not so in Setessa, where they volunteer. , "Setessa is not the city of my birth, but it is the place I fight for, and the place I'm willing to die for. Does that not make it my home?" , "Cypress leaves for family, larkspur for protection, amaranth for a bountiful harvest." , Bassara, the tower of the fox, houses the elite skirmishers who guard the Nessian Wood against trespassers. , "Who says you cannot touch the stars?" , In the heart of Setessa, the warriors of Leina Tower defend the polis and train its daughters. , "Survival of the fittest is not only the law of the pits, it is the law of nature. That is why I fight." , Two taken, two judged, one returned. , "You bound me with a contract only your death could end—and you thought me the fool?"
—Liliana Vess , "The gleam of rubies and my brothers and sisters by my side . . . what more could I want?"
—Brognold the Third , No one in Aphetto answers a knock at the door after sundown. , "I've seen Ravnica's fate. Believe me, I'm doing you a favor." , "The mortal world is a grove of sweet fruit, and I am ready to harvest it."
—Fallen angel , "The best moments are worth reliving." , They hardly have form, dripping through pipe and grate with the slip and stench of flowing sewage. , You lie down with rats, and the rats run away.
—Suq'Ata insult , "Too wary to charge, too prudent to serve. Not anymore."
—Sedris, the Traitor King , The Blessed Sleep doesn't come easily to a mind chained by regrets. , Shackles of gold are still shackles. , The grim business of the Coliseum casts long shadows. , Light creates shadow; light destroys shadow. Such is the transience of darkness. , "Does your passion for power consume your soul?"
—Watnik, master glassblower , The carnage of conflicts long past still stains the Otarian soil. , "My favorite guilty pleasure? Are there innocent ones?" , "The future is a snake, devouring your life backwards through time. And when you die, believe me, it doesn't stop feeding."
—Sedris, the Traitor King , A few bands of kor sought refuge from the Eldrazi in Zendikar's vast cave networks, relying on their ability to survive in harsh vertical landscapes. , To keep the dead so others may live.
—Shadow Guild maxim , Shadow lances are crafted from harvested souls. The more wicked the sinner, the keener the blade. , "Your ignorance is my bliss."
—Szadek , "Death has seeped into every part of this plane. I can feel it on my skin and taste it like sand in my mouth."
—Nissa Revane , In its world of complete darkness, it has no shadows to fear. , These slivers, trapped between worlds since the Rathi overlay, are among the last to claim direct lineage from the lost Sliver Queen. , A weapon of darkness for a warrior of light. , "You've not seen a storm until you've seen the kind that roars between worlds."
—Lyna, soltari emissary , She can coil a breeze like a string around her finger—or twist it into a noose. , The shadows of death fall over everyone in the end. , A threefold calamity with a single will. , Its only predators are the elements. , Good help is hard to dig up. , First, whispers of ancient days. Then, visions of things to come. , Some shamanic sects advocate the different seasons, each working to preserve nature's cycles. , To the elves, her spear is a compass; to the boggarts, a harbinger of doom. , Lost loved ones are never truly gone. , "Let the world behold what becomes of those who defy us."
—Taigam, Sidisi's Hand , Once he gets up and going, he will forever shamble on. , "The Kolaghan send them at us. We kill and raise them. They fight the next wave the Kolaghan send. It's a neat little cycle."
—Asmala, Silumgar sorcerer , Freyalise forbid that any stranger should wander into the striders' territory. , "The young squire gripped her sword as the clanking stranger emerged. It was no knight that had come to challenge her."
—*Beyond the Great Henge* , Chainer's madness personified, it exists only to slaughter the innocent. , "I am heir to many treasures. None is as precious as knowing how my ancestor lived her life." , Where dryads dance, seeds sprout and flowers bloom. , The River Heralds would wreck a thousand ships to keep intruders from finding the golden city. , Shape this world in Zhalfir's image.
—Shaper Guild maxim , Shapers adapt nature to fit their needs and then return it to the way it was, leaving no trace of their passing. , Protection is woven into every vine and branch. , One good mimic deserves another. , Born like a Phoenix from the Flame, But neither Bulk nor Shape the same.
—Jonathan Swift, "Vanbrug's House" , "Stand back. I know just what to do."
—Kiki-Jiki, Mirror Breaker , "Dragons in flight seldom expect company."
—Kadri, Dromoka warrior , Alara is broken no more. , Whether mechanical or biological, life finds a way to propagate itself. , "Let the mountain's teeth pierce our oppressors." , "It is the nature of souls that they burn more brightly together than apart."
—Vessifrus, flamekin demagogue , Riches must be divided, but real wealth can be shared. , "In times of need, the forest creates its own protectors."
—Vivien Reid , "Win together, die alone." , Not everyone can have a sword of blessed silver. Not everyone needs one, either. , To gain audience with the hegemon, one must bring a riddle she has not heard. , Today it's a miracle of architecture, a marvel of stained glass, a symbol of the Legion's power. Tomorrow, driftwood. , Rigid minds are the first to break. , She preaches the blessings of the Machine Orthodoxy. , "You must be mad to want one such as I aboard the *Weatherlight*. But I would be mad to remain here with my rotting family. I accept."
—Crovax , Victims are lucky if they remember ever having had what was lost. , "You must shatter the fetters of the past. Only then can you truly act."
—Rem Karolus, Blade of the Inquisitors , "Aurelia seems too eager to solve her problems by delivering them to oblivion."
—Prime Speaker Zegana , "Now I know why they call it Shatterskull Pass. Rocks fell all night like hammers smashing an anvil. It's no wonder the giants are angry all the time."
—Mitra, Bala Ged missionary , "We just pay him and point him at problems."
—Aro, Sea Gate adventurer , Saved from certain death by the kor, he considers himself bound to them by an unbreakable blood oath. , undefined , From a marvel of magical mechanization to a smoking stack of scrap in one easy step. , When the gods go to war, mortals pay the highest price. , "My minions serve me in the light; I serve no one."
—Shauku, Endbringer , To prepare for the Trial of Strength, nagas shed their old skin—and with it their scars, their doubts, and their fears. , Leave a bowl of milk on your doorstep each night for the brownies, or they'll cause you no end of mischief. , Skulkins confer strange benefits on unsuspecting patrons. , Good strategists seize opportunities. Great strategists make their own. , Dromoka's scalelords patrol the skies over Arashin, offering her people safety from the harsh world. , Those who wield the power of the sun protect the Empire from darkness. , "It matters not if the gods hear my prayers. Jamuraa does." , Pricy baubles are no match for cheap tricks. , "Rest, friends. I will protect you." , "My priests swore loyalty to the Cabal not until death, but beyond it."
—Cabal Patriarch , Not all heroes carry swords. , "Should you fall in the wilds, lift your voice to the Sky Realm. The one who answers will be your salvation."
—Emeria's Creed , "You have almost completed your four years, my son. Soon you shall be a skyknight."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight , The harder your strike, the stronger her defense. , Conflict breeds opportunity. , Izzet delved into the depths of Ravnica's past, and Selesnya followed without fear. , "Our unity conquers all fears." , "You may fight if I deem your cause worthy." , When it passes, order defeats chaos. , They bear weightier burdens than the shields they carry. , "Even land dwellers may call for Emeria's grace in times of need."
—Emeria's Creed , The duty: to defend. The reason: to survive. , "This shield is a true rarity: an artifact whose purpose is obvious."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist , We are made stronger by those we fight for. Designed by Richard Garriott , Benalish glazeplate is stained with salts from the Rift Era and enchanted to deflect blows. , Changelings can alter shape based on what the beings around them desire most. , "My soldiers know that they need never fear for their protection."
—King Darien of Kjeldor , "If not for the wizard, we'd all be dead now. 'Course, it was him that started all this in the first place."
—Onean veteran , "Show the enemy the true path, and the spirit will yearn to follow it."
—Houn, Jeskai elder , Master the sky and you rule everything beneath it.
—Metathran saying , Once the last few slivers the Riptide Project controlled were dead, there was nothing to keep the island from being completely overrun. , "You'd almost think Volrath doesn't want me here."
—Gerrard , Their dominion over dark and destructive forces twisted the oni into beings of pure malevolence. , "When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out/ Contagion to this world."
—William Shakespeare, *Hamlet* , To buy unseen land, pay in unseen coin.
—Suq'Ata maxim , The indigo dragon gladly traded a bit of its hoard for everlasting moonlight. , Life or death: which is the illusion?"
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher , A child's whisper could crack its shell, but not even an oni's scream could penetrate it. , Untold riches await those who forsake the bustling world to search the secret, silent places. , "Oh, is *that* all you need? Why didn't you just say so?"
—Reef shaman , "I leave words like 'impossible' to the rabble. Whatever I can imagine, I can create."
—Ixidor, reality sculptor , It evades Phyrexians by hiding in the spaces between seconds. , "There's something peculiar about the rain today."
—Janoc, Tin Street tinker , They are drawn by the brilliant blue glint of the mineral lazotep from the mines below. , It swims upon the winds and soars through the waves. , "The invaders cloak themselves in the shadows of dusk. Aerosaurs hide in the brilliance of the noonday sun."
—Caparocti Sunborn , "Understanding is not a virtue of the ogre. Do not seek to reason your way into Shinka Keep."
—Kiku, Night's Flower , The glow from within looks inviting, but woe awaits whomever finds out who stokes the fire or what simmers in the pot. , Lost at sea doesn't have to mean lost forever. , One pirate's wreck is another's reward. , Shipwrecks do wonders for the local fauna, providing both shelter and aether. , Her melody melds death and beauty with such artistry that even the gods weep to hear it. , "It's just playing with us, Marsden."
—Dafynne the Radiant, last words , Sometimes Shivan dragons toy with their food. Other times they just cook it. , Both forge and pyre. , "The blood of your ancestors ran heavy on this soil. Now it's your turn to sacrifice for the glory of Shiv."
—Viashino heretic , A dragon's scale can be carved into a mighty shield, provided you can procure a dragontooth to cut it. , Only the hardiest explorers survive to eat the fruit. , To strike down the phoenix is to slash at the flame. , It's easier to move the village than to divert the wumpus. , Barbarians long for a glorious death in battle. Phyrexia was eager to grant that wish. , When you see the world as a dragon sees it, everything looks fit to burn. , Centuries ago, Shizo was a verdant field of wildflowers. After 891 samurai died in a single battle on its grasses, it became a haunted moor. , It eats the things that eats the things that are drawn to the light. , "It's like a reef that runs aground on ships."
—Jaby, Silundi Sea nomad , "The beauty of it is they never see it coming. Ever."
—Razzix, sparkmage , Dragons of the Kolaghan brood are always on the move. They are the driving force behind the Mardu's nomadic way of life. , War is a conflict that determines not who is right—but who is left. , It grows several feet a year. , The Aurora replaced the changelings' innocence with malice and their curiosity with hunger. , Over their long life spans, the larger trilobites accumulate vast treasure troves in their guts. , "This strange new beast makes for an excellent meal. Get me more."
—Empress Galina , "They search for treasures that wash up from the depths. Tracking one could lead you to riches. Or in circles."
—Javad Nasrin, Ondu relic hunter , Kathari, the sickly aven of Grixis, have learned that the corpses by the shoreline are more trap than treat. , "Sometimes the only difference between a martyr and a hero is a sword."
—Captain Sisay, *Memoirs* , "Sea Gate may have fallen, but we still stand. We still fight."
—Gideon Jura , Rishadan barkeeps know something the Mercadians have yet to learn: if you keep pushing, someone will eventually push back. , At the academy, "show and tell" too often becomes "run and hide." , The viashino had learned how to operate the rig through trial and error—mostly error. , "As the knight struggled to stand, his squire took up his blade. The foe advanced not a single step."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire* , The audience quickly realized a few things: it wasn't a magic trick, there wasn't candy in there, and they'd need new clothes. , From trinket to trauma. , "Enemies of the wood! Your presence here is a slap in Nylea's face. Do not be surprised if she slaps back."
—Telphe, druid of Nylea , A few gnawing thoughts can eat at the mind until nothing else remains. , "Pleasure doing business with you." , "It's faster than we are. Draw its attention while the Ledev take aim!"
—Shauntal, Boros legionnaire , Wounds of the flesh are easy to heal. Wounds of the mind may never be undone. , A gargoyle's voice reaches pitches that will shatter glass and warp bone. , "Kaervek believes the drakes' cries herald his victory; in truth, they mourn aloud for his impending demise."
—Teferi , Orzhov mage-sculptors bring their stone to life before they carve it. The shrieking begins as soon as the mouths are formed. , You have to admire its enthusiasm. , When Crosis roared, the battle ended and the slaughter began. , "That's no glint hawk. The skies have changed for the worse."
—Ria Ivor, White Sun partisan , undefined , The gods known to the merfolk as Ula, Emeria, and Cosi were nothing more than false memories of a monstrous trinity: the Eldrazi titans Ulamog, Emrakul, and Kozilek. , "Do not fear adversity. Let your courage be your strength."
—Onatah, Anaba shaman , "Have you ever killed insects nibbling at your crops? I think that's what the Eldrazi believe they're doing to us."
—Sheyda, Ondu gamekeeper , Many travelers have wandered into a fog only to find that it had teeth, claws, and an appetite. , In establishing the Shu kingdom, Liu Bei's forces fought against Ma Chao at Chengdu. Eventually, Ma Chao surrendered and became one of Liu Bei's Tiger Generals. , Confronting Cao Cao's army at Steepslope Bridge, Zhang Fei bellowed, "I am Zhang Fei of Yan! Who dares fight me to the death?" Cao Cao's army cowered and fled. , Throughout the three kingdoms, important generals were often guarded by small groups of expert soldiers known as "elite companions." , Kongming's first campaign against the Wei kingdom was a rousing success until an arrogant Shu general, Ma Su, foolishly lost the city of Jieting. , "The common folk are ceaselessly active. The fields are fertile and the soil productive, and neither flood nor drought plagues us."
—A Shu diplomat , Liu Bei lost many men at the battle of Runan because of his lack of strategy. It wasn't until he met Kongming that he began to truly succeed as a leader. , Keeping a million-man army fed was no easy task. Grain and rice caravans were the lifeblood of the empire. , "One scratch on a wall meant safe passage, two that the target had already been raided, and three warned of a trap."
—*Weaponry of Kamigawa* , Aranghil held her fury in her heart, hard and bright as a ruby. With its razor edge, she rewrote the laws of battle. , During Kongming's campaigns against the Wei, his Shu troops rotated from the battlefront to the fields every hundred days. , "Capturing this specimen was not easy. Study it well, that you someday might be as versatile."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , "Relax. I'm sure it's just a snake hissing."
—Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald , "They were your friends, your family, your clan. They want only to welcome you."
—Tasigur, the Golden Fang , "I almost envy them. They can't get frostbite."
—Kirada, Silumgar enforcer , The Phyrexians' only interest in organic life is discerning its weakness. , Urza dared to attack Phyrexia. Slowly, it retaliated. , The Patriarch dreams of vile plague. , "I lead, destruction follows." , His sickle was forged in the heat of another cinder's funeral pyre. , "Prophecy is whatever one makes of it, but destiny cannot be changed."
—Sidar Jabari , Hisoka's wizards struggled for years to master the art of redirection that came so naturally to the shamans of Ganzan Pass. , His friends at the gym never knew Garanth's secret shame. For years he had tried to walk away from professional arm wrestling, but hey—free monkeys. , "Those who embrace the harsh land rather than fight it find they have a powerful ally."
—Nissa Revane , "They encircled our patrol with the stealth of snakes, corralling us like livestock."
—Merrik Aidar, Benalish patrol , "I tire of your prattle, and your face." , The Sultai distinguish between pet and slave by the material of the chain. , "Hold the line, hold the li—"
—General Srok, last words , No rampart can withstand the fury of a giant. , "They thought their fortress impregnable . . . until we marched up with ours, and blocked out the sun."
—Golran, dragonscale captain , "Ready . . . uh . . . fire!" , To a siegehorn, there is no such thing as a dead end. , "The walls of the wicked will fall before us. Ready the siege engines. We proceed to war!"
—General Avitora , Perfect for getting through to the consuls. , The mere approach of an Abzan war beast is enough to send enemies fleeing in panic. , Suddenly, all the haggling didn't seem so important. , Dwell longest on the thoughts that shine brightest. , "Rhonas's monument belongs to the wurms now. Look elsewhere for refuge."
—Arnun, vizier of the menagerie , Great devotion yields great reward. , The Order of Saint Traft found new strength with Sigarda's support. , Many whose faith was destroyed by Avacyn turned to the only angel who remained true to humanity. , It blindly marches on Thraben's gates, guided by its master's direful will. , "The Silumgar creep around our borders and infiltrate our aeries. We must remain ever watchful."
—Golran, Dromoka captain , "For unwavering commitment and unflinching strength, the Order of the White Orchid confers its sigil. Rise, knight-captain, and do your duty." , "One sigil awarded for valor, the other awarded for surviving Hellkite's Pass." , "Do not mistake a behemoth's assistance for subservience."
—Mayael the Anima , "All right. Warm-ups are over." , Each sigil marks the recognition of a great deed and signifies a duty owed to the one who granted it. , The runes seem to come alive as it moves, rippling like slow flames across its scales. , Kruphix hid the most dire prophecies about humankind where humans would never find them and tritons wouldn't care to read them. , Arrows are only one way to remove an enemy. , When Asha left Bant, she ensured that the world would have protection and order in her absence. , As the elves learned the hymns of angels, the knights learned the roars of titans. , The sigil represents an honor that endures beyond death. , With each honor he earns, Gideon paves the path to his redemption. , "The reflection is true. It is you who are distorted and false." , It leaps from tree to tree, revealing the enemy's positions. , Gruul clanfolk obey few rules, but all feel bound to answer the call of the horn. , Little agonies pave the way to greater power. , "Accursed scarecrow! Sending folk in every direction is the same as sending them nowhere at all."
—Corliss the Wanderer , Nephalia is home to many hard-shelled creatures of unusual size, the largest of which are either avoided or worshipped. , "Take a quiet moment to reflect on your sins."
—Cleph, Order of Redeemed Souls , Scholars say that arbiters exist on every world, created by an unknown hand to enforce justice. , On the fourth day they passed through a forest of immense stacked stones. Althemone, youngest of the companions, called these pillars the work of a god, but the Champion knew better. She quickened her pace.
—*The Theriad* , She feels no need to disturb her victim's slumber. , "The answer to life should never be death; it should always be more life, wrapped tight around us like precious silks." , When the Honden of Cleansing Fire was abandoned, its attendants swarmed Kamigawa to erode mortal will. , The expedition's end began the marsh's story. , "These terms are acceptable to House Dimir. Shall we shake on it?" , The same magic that lets geists pass through our realm can force them out of it. , Made to ward off the Grim Captain and silence the lure of undeath. , It's not just a feeling—you *are* being watched. , It serves a justice higher than the whims of the gods. , "I watched it pass at a distance. When I looked back to my companions, Najet was dead."
—Akiri, kor line-slinger , Street folk call them "spire mice," but behind the mockery is an unspoken envy of the ledgewalkers' skill at avoiding harm. , In light he finds both gift and weapon. , "Stay close! It's just a little farther." , "The bigger they are, the more fun it is to watch them fall flat on their faces." , Simple wooden staff Made from life, protecting life, Stronger than cold steel. , Hands weave life and death; Intertwining spirits knit Tapestries and shrouds. , By the time the spider comes to slurp up its dinner, its victims have been partially dissolved by acidic silk. , Sometimes it's possible to pull a meal out of thin air. , Elvish weavers use spidersilk to make everything from tapestries to rappelling ropes. , Better scarves than scars. , If they could replenish the land instead of draining it, Jamuraa would be teeming with them. , Silumgar takes pride in the diversity of his sibsig. , Silumgar dominates his clan from a fortress on the Marang River, where he rests upon piles of treasure. , "No machinations, no puppet strings, no plots. Just pure, sweeping death."
—Tasigur, the Golden Fang , undefined , It does not wear a crown or sit on a throne of gold, but those who have witnessed its power hail it nonetheless. , The apes of Yavimaya draw strength from the spirits of their ancestors. , A pair of domesticated griffins escaped from captivity a century ago. Now the skies are filled with the songs of their descendants. , "Be careful in your hunt. The clever little creature can steal your wards and lead you right into the werewolf's den."
—Britta, midwife of Gatstaf , "Control them? No. I gird them in armor and let them loose."
—Yacha, Otepec huntmaster , It patrols the grafs for miles around Thraben, ensuring that the unhallowed do not wake for long. , "In the wild, white fur like mine is an aberration. We lack natural camouflage, but the inability to hide encourages other strengths."
—Ajani Goldmane , "I've seen a larger Erne knock a Giant to the ground and stay airborne. They move not with the wind, but as the wind."
—Arna Kennerüd, Skyknight , Tempered by fire and united in virtue, the knights of Ardenvale fight with a single, unbreakable will. , Beacons along the borderlands are lit at any incursion from the wilds. , Silverfurs are the last remaining wolfir. , "If you keep to the shallows, you'll never learn the secrets of the depths." , The Silvergill school monitors traffic on the Lanes, ensuring that the riffraff don't interfere with travelers. , Magical etchings turned a whittler's tool into a wolfhunter's weapon. , "Hammer out your doubts as you forge your weapon. To slay a dragon, your resolve must be stronger than your steel." , The myr are like quicksilver: malleable in function and adaptable in form. , A symbol of hope for hopeless times. , Partisan spies warned that no armor would protect the body from Phyrexian infection. Neurok strategists took that as a challenge. , Being trapped between two forms of unlife is a fate worse than mere death. , "Shield yourself with faith. Arm yourself with silver."
—Slayer Kastinne , He was born of the Mirari, thrust out of his homeland before he was even aware. Left without purpose or meaning, he found both in the pits. , Sima Yi fought for four generations of the Cao family before his own grandson became emperor and united the three kingdoms. , "It's odd to see the apes rip down trees to arm themselves in defense of their forests."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , These monkeys mean business. , "All my spells smell like burnt hair lately."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , "We measure our progress in heartbeats."
—Prime Speaker Zegana , Simic symbols are among the most intricate and fragile, yet few vandalize them for fear of the strange lifeforms that might be released. , "Mystery is beauty. Within the unknown we plumb revelation."
—Vannifar , Simic initiates begin their training as experimental subjects. Failures are flushed to the undersewers. , "Like our guild itself, this locket can stand for many things. You must discern what it means for you."
—Vannifar , "Infused with autochthon blood for size and hellion cells for speed, the ragworm is perfect for clearing the undergardens of both rats and vagrants."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer , For the Simic Combine, its sigil serves not as an emblem of honor but as a trademark. Its familiar image on any biological commodity attests to superb craftsmanship, ingenious innovation, and higher cost. , "We've bred out the shortcomings of the species' natural form and replaced them with assets of our own design."
—Momir Vig , Hot wind whipped up as if the weather itself wanted to fight Phyrexians. , A blossom's petals close inward to shut out the frost.
—Nantuko teaching , "That must weigh heavily on your soul. Let me purge it for you." , As the muscle cords of the creature twitched, Hanna saw an unsettling unanimity in the others' rippling flesh. She didn't know what it meant, but she urged Sisay to keep the ship at a safe distance. , Burnt flesh. Blackened soul. , Even the balmgivers of Bant couldn't heal the incurables, but sharing their torment helped. , Not even a threat to the entire Multiverse could persuade them to put aside their feud. , An old family recipe for an old family grudge. , "You caught something on a cold night's stroll? No, I'd say something caught you."
—Mezim Magrah, civic healer , "We have intel that some guilds have fallen under an invader's influence. Until we're sure, no venture succeeds."
—Lazav , "I bless the living with a song of death."
—Lord Dralnu , High walls, a sturdy keep, a strong garrison . . . they made no difference. In a matter of moments, the city was lost. , "Steel rusts. Arrows break. But righteousness is always strong, always sharp." , Conspirators poisoned the oracle not because her visions were wrong, but because they were right. , "Prepare to be boarded." , A siren once tried to steal it out of jealousy but was caught by the song of its strings. , Deception and misdirection are the heart of the pirate's arsenal. , He's the calm that hides the coming storm. , Its victims become mindless lunatics. Conveniently, that's the first step in joining the Cult of Rakdos. , As the great scourge passed by, Zendikar shivered, then lay silent. , This storm blows gales through the dreams of men. , "Blow, fiery wind, / strip illusion from the eye. / Blow, fiery wind of truth."
—Femeref chant , "Remember Sir Shandlar! Remember and stand firm!"
—rallying cry of the Eberyn militia , "I'm not one for pretty things," said Sisay. "Unless they're pretty useful as well." , We are many wicks sharing a common tallow; we feed the skies with the ashes of our prey. , Even the brave have cause to tremble at the sight of Sivitri Scarzam. Who else has tamed Scarzam's Dragon? , Instinct yields the truest insight. , Is it six? , "Of course you should fight fire with fire. You should fight *everything* with fire."
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , "A thousand sparks can burn through your defenses just as quickly as one massive blaze."
—Attikar, Akoum elementalist , Three heads are better than one. , "This imprint was the familiar of a friend."
—Vivien Reid , "The sky isn't falling—it's being thrown at us!"
—Otak, Tin Street shopkeep , "They bind us with their laws. We free ourselves with nature's fist."
—Nikya of the Old Ways , "This palace will be our fire-spit, and roasted prince our victory meal. Send in the torch-pigs!"
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage , "A better Ravnica begins with a better Simic."
—Vannifar , Though they lack true flesh and bone of their own, changelings imitate either with equal ease. , The less flesh there is, the more teeth there seem to be. , "And then I realized we all have skeletons on the inside. Why wait until the bodies are dead to control them?"
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia , Undeath doesn't end the kathari's search for carrion; it only removes one corpse from the Dregscape. , His family was a small price to pay for the dark gifts that called to him. , They watched as the snake shed layer after layer until only cold bone remained. , Necromancers are judged by the most powerful undead they've ever created. There are those who have animated just a single being, yet are considered the pinnacle of their dark craft. , "Soul, flesh, even eyes—none of these are strictly necessary for deadly precision."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen , Fire burns away both flesh and freedom. , Metal permeates the marrow of every bone in Mephidross—except one. , "The sea gives up her dead as easily as the soil."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , Going to a Rakdos show is dangerous. Trying to leave early can be fatal. , "Valor is a currency of the living that serves us well."
—Cosper Lowe of the Silbern Guard , "These Gruul skin-runes—discern whether their patterns evoke streets, leylines, or both. You have four days."
—Niv-Mizzet, to his assistant , undefined , "Your creations are effective, Sheoldred, but we must unite the flesh, not merely flay it."
—Elesh Norn, Grand Cenobite , The first Yawgmoth priest to harness their power was rewarded with several unique mutilations. , "I treat each day as your last." , "I order you to volunteer." , He's boss because he's smart enough to get out of the way. , Once the goblins thought about it, they preferred being atop a slateback to being in front of, behind, or underneath one. , Deep beneath the ruined continent of Otaria, there's a mine where goblins still work, ignorant of the destruction above. , In a shaman's grimy hands, a concoction of dried Skirk Ridge herbs can become the face of panic. , "Within blood is life. Within life is fire. Within fire is the path to our masters' glory!" , Certain initiates into the Skirsdag cult take a vow of blindness, pledging obedience to none but demonkind. , "Thraben's pleas fall on deaf ears. Ours do not." , "I can no longer stand by as these Skirsdag infiltrators rot the church from within. Even the Lunarch Council is compromised. What a fool I've been."
—Odric , "Life has no mistakes, only experiments."
—Yolov, Simic bioengineer , It flows like water over the forest floor, as deadly as the swiftest current. , "This monstrosity will do—for now."
—Davvol, Evincar of Rath , "The brood spread far faster than we could kill it. I fear the worst is yet to come."
—*The War Diaries* , Most living things were weakened and stunted in the ruinous aftermath of the Phyrexian invasion, but a few grew more horrid than ever. , The imps' warbling cries echo through Phyrexia's towers like those of mourning doves in a cathedral. , Like a cross between a spider and a spyglass, but friendlier. , Fierce when roused, this breed of kavu is easily distracted by a strong voice or melodic tune. , It skitters across the Shiv, each tendril hitting the ground with a sharp snap. , "From the ashes of last night's revel, I bring the dawn on new growth." , The minotaur polis of Skophos boasts grand temples to the god of slaughter. , "This close to Rimewind Keep, no avalanche is nature's doing."
—Ukoten, centaur chieftain , "They're so much more willing to parley once they're hanging from a boom by the ankle!" , In the Cateran guild, being caught is a capital offense. , "They exist only so long as the living take no notice."
—Kifimbo, Shadow guildmage , Only a focused mind can survive it. , "Let any who doubt the evil of using the ancient devices look at this infernal machine. What manner of fiend would design such a sadistic device?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic , The mind is a beautiful bounty encased in an annoying bone container. , "Your blood I'll use. Your skull I'll keep." , The lawmage's argument was clever and well reasoned, but Blunk's response proved irrefutable. , The ogre crashed through the massive door. The winged folios scattered like frightened birds. , Once tasted, the flavor of skullmead lingers in the throat, a secret brand of guilt for those who partake in forbidden pleasures. , Though lifeless, the skull still possessed a strange power over the flow of magic. , Ramos fell, and there was night. , "I study bone because that's where truth dwells. One monster knucklebone is wiser than all that damp meat in your head." , "We could never accept anyone with a face that pretty or a mind that sane."
—Nyoser, Gore-House ringleader , No body is ready for this kind of power. , "A good whack on the head usually has the same effect."
—Kamahl, pit fighter , A rapid and catastrophic decline. , "Finally, a use for that head of yours."
—Braids, dementia summoner , Vampires call the gift of flight "exultation." For their enemies, it brings only sorrow. , "If bats are the only thing between me and a mountain of Orzhov coins, then I'm about to be a very rich thief." , The bounty on its head is as old as Skysail, but no one has ever tried to collect. , undefined , Wrenched from the ground like a dirt-caked rock, the ancient Skyclave wriggled with life. , For use on cliffs and other faces. , Skyclaves held the key to reshaping the world. , "Perhaps its distant ancestors were radiant felidars, but no hint of their nobility remains."
—Akiri, kor line-slinger , An ancient sea monster dragged the Murasa Skyclave under the waves, then smaller sea monsters moved in. , Their newfound wings shined elegantly and functioned partially. , "Have your dreams of a better society become an obsession?"
—Watnik, master glassblower , From Otaria, the sun above meets the sea below at a glittering horizon. , The essence of wind to lift up the weary. , They swim on tides few can see, away from a threat few yet understand. , Its fiery visitation burns away the fog of war and dissipates the ties of loyalty. , Its fury sets the clouds alight. , Both Boros and Azorius scout the games in hopes of recruiting the finest athletes. , Every young leonin wishes to become a skyhunter, for they soar closest to the suns. , "We leonin have come to rule the plains by taking to the skies."
—Raksha Golden Cub , As tireless as her mount, a skyhunter's vigil is measured in days. , "Like dawn's first light, blind the unprepared and banish the shadows."
—Skyhunter creed , Squadrons of skyknights are available for deployment around the clock, capable of reaching any district in the city within minutes. , "Jump! NOW!" , "It preys on those who would spy on our lands, so we never prey on it."
—Kroshkar, Gruul shaman , "It will dodge your first arrow and flatten you before there's a second."
—Alcarus, Selesnya archer , "Sometimes an angel passes by and gives me a little nod, like, 'You're a daring one!' That always makes my day." , From the perpetual shadowsmoke that hung above the ship, a silent form emerged, lips curled with malice and anticipation. , "I was born to glory." , "Try not to look guilty. Or delicious."
—Thorpe, street urchin , She will not be content until hers is the highest head in the sky. , As the dawns break, the manta soars. , "It may be unconventional, but I'll take any steady mount in a storm." , "Of course I plan on going up. Kang here is the most trusted 'fin on the squad. Afraid? Me? No, I'm just . . . waiting for the right wind conditions." , "Hold up your spears. And try not to look like food."
—Tarsa, Sea Gate sell-sword , The municipal senate makes extensive use of the thopters, mostly to gather dirt on rival senators. , "The Eldrazi are nothing if not thorough."
—Jace Beleren , "All clouds should be so organized."
—Isperia , "It'll get us to the portal, but I can't guarantee what it'll do to the ship."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , Escapes should always be daring. , In Rath, arrows are guided not by virtue but by necessity. , "Behold," said Freyalise to Eladamri. "Your Skyshroud home has followed you to Dominaria." , The forest's constant struggle is to keep the spreading flowstone at bay. , Condor's flight augurs sleepless night.
—Skyshroud proverb , "It is our duty to endure."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , "Civilization is a conspiracy to disguise the mutilation of nature."
—Skyshroud elite creed , The earliest mystics believed that the falcon slit the sky to let the light break through. , "It's OK. They're just elves." , Not even the elves truly know the Skyshroud Forest. The rangers are merely the best equipped to handle its uncertainty. , The elves and merfolk have nothing but bitterness for each other. The trolls, however, find them both rather tasty. , "We were not made for war. Like flowstone, Volrath shaped us to it."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , "If it tastes one drop of elvish blood I will cast it from the shroud to see it burn."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , The only thing more ill-tempered than a griffin in a web is the spider that must subdue it. , Pray her spear reaches you first. Her griffin is less kind. , "Like a strain of music: easy to remember but impossible to catch."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , Victories at Valor's Reach are broadcast via griffins in the sky above. , Would you trade the world for such a pet? , The great birds dive through the sky, wings skimming the aether streams, to fall upon their unsuspecting prey. , "Wherever the Threefold Sun shines, great wings may go."
—Emperor Apatzec Intli III , "If you can't control your mount, I will control it for you."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar , Courier owls joined the fray, attacking the Dreadhorde with a viciousness usually reserved for mail thieves. , They lament the doom that is coming to Bant without realizing the part their own leaders have played in it. , "No sight is more beautiful than a clear sky." , "Let my wisdom give you wings." , In the moment of truth, it is as though time stands still, and the whale waits, suspended in the sky. , It's so light and fragile that it can glide where the air is thinnest. , "I am as the wind that bears me: harsh yet gentle, fleeting yet ever-present. Together we fly beyond imagination." , Ojutai's words must be translated from Draconic before his students can benefit from their wisdom. , Neither subtle nor pretty. , "Seal the furnace vents. Admit no others. We'll tend our forges without their tainted ways."
—Decree of Urabrask , "As long as we have the will to fight, we are never without weapons."
—Koth of the Hammer , "Unless you enter the tiger's lair, you cannot get hold of the tiger's cubs."
—Sun Tzu, Art of War (trans. Giles) , "The amber sun smokes with fury, gazing on foes that gather like ants invading our home. We are ready! Blade and claw strike as one."
—Huatli , It runs an endless circuit along the ruined roads of the soon-to-be-forgotten Mirran civilization. , The generals each surveyed their devastated forces. Then, slowly, they turned to each other and raised their swords. , The pattern of life can be studied like a book, if you know how to read it. , "Merciless to the point of psychosis. Let's give him a job."
—Zelinas, Orzhov recruiter , It's rather embarrassing to end up with your head mounted over his hearth. , It kills what is, making way for what should not be. , The Orzhov clergy would never cross its path, but sending thrull couriers to do so is cheap and entertaining. , A Rakdos party is a flop if anyone lives to talk about it. , Death is only the beginning of the end. , "Mogis is pleased by this offering. Bring him more!" , "Cut the beasts out from under them and their strength is nothing."
—Vona of Iedo, Butcher of Magan , Nicol Bolas doesn't distinguish between servants and victims. , Having lost their minds, they now want yours. , The elves had the edge in guile, skill, and valor. But in the end, only sheer numbers mattered. , You don't want to see his trophy room. , "Don't stop chopping until the pieces stop wiggling."
—Rem Karolus, Slayer of Eldrazi , Its courtyards are lit during every hour of the day so that night may never fall within its walls. , The purest virtue burns brighter than the sun and hotter than dragonfire. , The pirates had left the open sea behind, but they were still in their element: reckless adventure. , "I give them dreams so wondrous that they hesitate to return to the world of the conscious."
—Garild, merfolk mage , "Sleep now, you big brute."
—Kelsien, the Plague , Normally, a cerberus sleeps one head at a time. , Sleep doesn't always mean rest. , "Gambling with mages never is."
—Remin, venerable monk , The magic of the River Heralds is so great that even a single shaman can fend off a pirate landing party. , "Relax. It's quite harmless. And it will dissolve completely in a month or two."
—Navona, Simic field tester , As Jhoira restored the *Weatherlight*, a mushroom growing in its hold unexpectedly became her first crew member. , "Give me enough refuse and mana and I will summon an ooze that can engulf all of Ravnica."
—Cevraya, Golgari shaman , Its slime liquefies the ground as efficiently as its fangs shred prey. , The Tajuru elves devised ways to let the forest defend itself. , Freshly promoted to "first rock", Zaz was eager to make an impact. , It's most effective when it doesn't eat the ammunition. , "I need a better hiding place." , It winds its way through undergrowth as easily as it swims through shallows. , Davvol encouraged the skirges; they made excellent sentries and were quite edible if properly seasoned. , Ogle the bogle, or goggle the boggle? Doesn't matter. You weren't going to catch it anyway. , "I'd rather be caught red-handed than leave empty-handed!" , "It's a fine way to travel, if you don't mind the smell." , The Eldrazi twisted in a direction that had no name, and a frontal assault became a panicked rout. , It's futile to fight something you can see only in the corner of your eye. , Instinctively drawn to the light of its "mother-sun," each slith follows that sun's path around Mirrodin. , Goblins fear the slith, believing they are children banished from the womb of the Steel Mother, deep within Kuldotha. , Some naga initiates move as silently as the suns' reflections on the water. , "It makes better use of Uncle Dragi's head than he ever did."
—Pesha, retired blacksmith , Fear is its habitat, sanity its prey. , The slith incubate in the Great Furnace's heat, emerging on Mirrodin's surface only when the four suns have aligned overhead. , Born amid the molten metal of the Great Furnace, the slith have more than adapted to the perils of a metal world. , A slith's form and function are determined by the color of the sun under which it's born. , Slivers destroy those who come close to the Skep, the central hive. Shards of torn metal litter the ground as a warning to any artificers inquisitive about the hive's inner workings. , "This is the source, the line unbroken since the calamity that brought such monsters to our shores."
—Hastric, Thunian scout , Hidden within the clicking, chittering swarm is a unique mind, still young, but growing more aware as time passes. , The end of evolution. , Her children are ever part of her. , After centuries of labor, its creations outnumber those they were to mimic. , "I used to joke that he had been exiled for being too smart. Now I know why he never laughed."
—Glissa Sunseeker , Underneath the cities of Esper are cycles of life unseen by those who feed them. , Vark decided to lie down and think of a good excuse to quit working. , It's sent into unguilded districts by the Orzhov to collect the souls of those no one will miss. , The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Subpar, Notoriously Evil Agent Killers. , The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Sinister Nerds Eliminating All Knowledge. , The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Serious, Nonstop Espionage and Kidnapping. , The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Spies Nimbly Eluding Adversaries' Knives. , The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Silent Ninjas Evading Any Kapture. , The Agents of S.N.E.A.K.—Skilled, Notably Efficient Assassin-Kickers. , Take away a few things, and a rebellion may ensue. Take away everything, and the oppression will be accepted as fate. , "I don't get it. Why doesn't anybody like me?" , Ravnica's laws protect not its citizens but its industry. Aging equipment is destroyed rather than restored, to bring more money into the factories' coffers. , The giant Tarvik dreamed that trinkets and machines caused all the world's woe. When he awoke from his troubled sleep, he took the name Tarvik Relicsmasher. , The creation of new weapons demands the destruction of others. , "Come in, yes? Is warm!" , "Don't arrest him—enlist him!"
—Commander Yaszen , "You've got your childhood wish at last. Now you get to die."
—Gerrard, to Volrath , "Darkness always flees from the light, and I am the breaking dawn."
—Kordain, luminarch of Kabira , Malice is appropriate when vengeance is called for. , "My quest? Why, to marry Ayara. Or die trying." , "The skies used to be my refuge, a place of peace away from the chaos below. Now, with every flight, death seems to follow me like a shadow."
—Writings of Cica, Skyjek scout , "An entire order of mages who draw their power from Ravnica's smog? Yet another indicator of our world's decay."
—Dravash, dowsing shaman , "Be silent and listen to your inner fire. Only then can you walk the Path of Flame." , The Mirari festers in its flesh. , "See your enemies from a thousand sides. Then you will find a thousand ways to kill them." , A cinder's axe bears no marks from parrying a foe's blade. , The efreet are drawn to the Kaisham Wanderers, a loosely organized Jeskai school where trickery is employed to challenge the status quo and upend the belief systems of others. , The continent of Guul Draz is a geothermal swampland reeking of heat and decay. , undefined , "Life is a circle. Death is a vicious circle." , "Before I hire new recruits, I test how long they can hold their breath. You'd be surprised how often it comes up."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader , "I await your donation."
—Dasha, Orzhov priest , "Uh, does anyone have a flute?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool , Losing his possessions distressed him, but the lack of limbs was strangely liberating. , Some fruits are best left ungathered. , If the ground is smooth, the way will be rough.
—Deepwood saying , It doesn't matter if the mind or body cracks first. They both have to go. , "If it returns years hence, our knowledge of how to combat it will be that much greater."
—Andorel, Tolarian sentinel , Its vast network of roots and vines keeps it aware of distant dangers. , Foul-tempered, poorly trained, and mule-stubborn, the drake is the perfect test of the master's will. , All of Zendikar's beings sense the upheaval that accompanies the Eldrazi. , Lurking beneath the murky waters of Ixalan's rivers, sailbacks can rip a meal off the shore in the blink of an eye. , Built from a reconfigured thresher, it charges with light reflected off the golden plain, ready to take to the air in case of danger. , "Let's lure the drakes to the webs over the Samok Stand. Keep the spiders content."
—Aurelia , "Our volleys don't aim to kill. Impair them and the ground will do the rest."
—Alux, Skysail defender , A hunter's precision and a durkvine's strength are a potent combination. , "I did not think I would understand the cold filigree creatures of this world, but they too are governed by the laws of nature."
—Nissa Revane , Most creatures in the Krosan Forest feared the Mirari's power. A few fed upon it. , "Nothin' beat surprise—'cept rock." , "I swear, it's a shortcut." , Keep watch only for the giants and you'll be eaten by the ants. , "In this line of work, you've got to know how to squirrel things away. Quite literally, in my case." , There's little advantage to surprising the gahr. , "Give me wings to fly and speed to strike. In return, the glory I earn shall be yours."
—Steinar Icefist, Balduvian Shaman , Sure-footed, strong-willed, and ill-tempered—and so is the ram. , "If you're starving, eat your horses, your dead, or yourself—but *never* eat your dog."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , They're fun to train—if you like stubborn, aggressive, and fiercely territorial. , "The bigger they are, the faster they rot." , "Would you give up your hands to fly? That is what the birds have done."
—*The One Thousand Questions* , Some spectators love an underdog, but others are just as happy to support a proven winner. , It spoke with the voice of nature, but its words were curses spat upon humankind. , "We camped near the Sokenzan Mountains. Though I know its inhabitants are sparse, I hear cries coming from the highest peaks every night, as if the mountains themselves bellow for vengeance."
—Lost Battalion, message to General Takeno , "The primary weapon is nothing more than light. It shows them what they are, and they burn of their own accord."
—Aurelia , "People love to follow fools; they don't feel so alone then."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic , "This ceaseless device has helped uncover marvels unreachable by mere flesh."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist , Slow and steady wins the race. , "In the arms of tragedy, there is little comfort in being right."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic , "Perhaps this time the power of the artificers shall be used wisely."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , "To hide the truth is more than folly—it is fatal."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi heretic , "A dreadful invention. What ease is there under the watchful eye of cold steel?"
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic , They look human—until they bleed. , "Dagsson saw the steam as life-giving—until his followers felt its scalding touch."
—Sorine Relicbane, Soldevi Heretic , "Loyalty to coin alone is loyalty nonetheless."
—General Varchild , "I hear the gods' voices in my dreams each night, and I offer bloody trophies on their altars each day." , It fights with inhuman vigor. , The arrival of the God-Pharaoh marked a betrayal of both gods and mortals. , "You will be reimbursed for your donation."
"The reimbursement is spiritual."
—Temple signs , "I can no longer sit in my workshop and ignore the events outside. My hammers strike for the people of Ghirapur." , "A burst of hot air tossed the moon into the air, and the moon liked it up there so much it never needed the ground again."
—Azeworai, "Glitter Moon" , "Look deep into the Grail, and see there what you desire most."
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , "We must all hang together, or assuredly we shall all hang separately."
—Benjamin Franklin , Deserts are inhospitable, not uninhabitable. , undefined , The gemini engines had lost connection with each other and wandered apart, developing an independent awareness of their surroundings. , Lost to time is the artificer's art of trapping light from a distant star in a ring of purest gold. , "Carry war to the Dauthi, no matter the way, no matter the world."
—Soltari battle chant , Alone at the portal, Ertai began his meditation. He realized immediately that he was not alone. , "Children of the Ruins, raised to be warriors, know that life begins when another speaks their names."
—Soltari *Tales of Life* , "In times of war the victors rarely save their best for last."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight , "Prayer rarely explains."
—Orim, Samite healer , "In Rath," the priest said, "there is even greater need for prayer." , "Dauthi blood is soltari wine."
—Soltari Tales of Life , The vedalken interrogate all intruders—once the hoverguards are done with them. , The Somberwald is her domain, and she has yet to hear an acceptable excuse for trespassing. , "You can face any danger when all of nature is on your side." , Stensian vampires encourage spiders near their manors so they can rob the webs. , Despite the reemergence of werewolves and the proliferation of Eldrazi, elk numbers in the Somberwald have remained steady. , He has nothing left but his resentment. , "Are you tired? You look tired." , undefined , Purraj sang slaughter and danced death. , She wept, not from perfect understanding, but from serene gratitude. , Heartwood brings peace in great symphonies where dryads conduct the trees through every note. , Few who encounter the strange, human-like grove leave once the lilting chorus of the dryads reaches their ears. , "Mat'Selesnya sings out, and life flourishes in answer." , Not wind, but the breath of the dead. , The true names of birds are songs woven into their souls. , He heard stars and saw thunder. , Music scythes the savage beast. , The call of the wild is rarely a solo. , They pick at the remains of the city's corpse. , Orim taught Ta-Karnst and the other Cho-Arrim healers a far less invasive method of healing. , The vizier's wisdom proved invaluable in untangling the Mercadian knot of lies. , "If one gets in your chimney, you're going to need a long wick and a barrel of bangstuff to get it out."
—Hob Heddil , "Nothing warms my heart better than a spirit kindled with rage." , "Why allow the fires of others to burn, when ours do not? Why leave them content, while we suffer? If there is to be misery, let it be borne by all." , He endures the pain of remembering Krosa as it once was and hopes that a future generation will have need of his memories. , "You hide your actions from eyes on the ground, but nothing escapes the clouds." , "The clouds obey my whims, and you'll obey theirs." , "To prevent, one must first predict." , Their mirrors show two worlds: that which is and that which should be. , "Soraya speaks with the hunters of the air, as do all of her family line."
—Autumn Willow , "The Great Serpent slumbers now, but all warmbloods will grovel in the dirt at its awakening!" , "Reynald wished for an army to sweep away his enemies. The fae king smiled."
—*Beyond the Great Henge* , Simun the Quiet filled the chest with his most precious thoughts. But in a fit of paranoia, he locked up the memory of where he hid the key. , "We have always counted time with sand; this pinch is your meaningless life."
—Nailah, self-proclaimed Queen of Rabiah , Do not react; anticipate. , "My people serve the dragon Kolaghan, but I give my blood for a greater lord." , "All your steel won't protect you if your will is weak." , "Cherish these last moments. Though your miserable life has come to nothing, I have given it a magnificent end." , His sword sounded like a silver chime on the glass jar, and the sprite laughed with delight. , "The Soul selects her own Society— Then—shuts the Door—"
—Emily Dickinson, "The Soul selects her own Society" , He grants endless wishes, as long as you always wish for a blade. , Whether the end comes swift or slow, it always comes too soon. , The kor's most righteous dead are given the greatest reward: an eternity tied to the land they so cherish. , When provoked, a flamekin's inner fire burns far hotter than any giant's forge. , Vowing to free the souls of her children, Kastinne followed the tormentors into the ghastly network of caves below Stensia. , "Their spirits walk the winds and fill my soul." , Driven by masters more terrible than the Mercadians could imagine, the dark overseers would pay any price to keep their shipwrights working. , She seeks the warmth of the living. , "You have an unhealthy attachment to your selfhood. I can help you with that."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis , As the Eternal's cold fingers tightened around his throat, Domri realized what kind of master he had rushed to serve. , Don't drink and thrive. , "I smell the tang of a mortal's fresh blood. I hear it sliding wetly beneath its skin. My hunger cannot refuse the invitation."
—Yuri, Sengir vampire , It watches over every absence. , "Surrender your soul to me." , They danced like puppets to a tune only Yawgmoth could hear. , "Birth and death are both reversible."
—Nicol Bolas , "Healing is more art than magic. Well, there is still quite a bit of magic." , Within seconds, the nim was consumed in blinding sunfire. Afterwards, only a puddle of molten iron remained. , "In every other mind, the battle was lost. General Takeno alone was not touched by despair. Drawing his blade, he was attack and rallying cry in one."
—*Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale* , It's there when a seed sprouts, when gourds ripen on the vines, and when the reapers cut the grains under the Harvest Moon. , With Kumena in control of the Immortal Sun, the rapids rose from their riverbeds and the waterfalls took flight. , "I was called to this world of steel, and it will be my steel that answers."
—Elspeth , The Maelstrom sent a wave of raw mana through the battlefield, carrying off the fighting and fallen alike. , Their thoughtweft carried Darial's last thoughts back to his doun. They sorely wished it had not. , "We offer Mogis the blood of the weak, and in return he makes us strong." , "Since I cannot stop death, I choose to stop life."
—Kaervek , The first mistake the Grimnant knights made was bullying the owner of an Urborg corpse shop. Their second mistake was dying. , In truth, her own faith was gone, trodden in Ulamog's wake. She pantomimed the blessing in the hope that it would inspire others to continue to struggle. , "I have seen the end of times, a future in which all our kind are torn from this world."
—Ushanti, leonin shaman , Does the stone mimic life, or did it once live? , There was no witty retort, no confident boast to accompany the attack. There was only pain. , undefined , An avatar he sculpts of anger and flame. , An avatar he sculpts of fellowship and light. , The Kargan tribes share legends of the victory their ancestors won over the Akoum Skyclave, and its horrendous cost. , "The sidar who raised me had a saying: 'The first step into death is the hardest.'"
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , It would be a shame to let life slip away to nothing. , "The flesh is a casket for the soul."
—Shauku, Endbringer , An avatar he sculpts of wisdom and strength. , An avatar he sculpts of instinct and force. , "Body and spirit are sworn enemies. They will take any excuse to be rid of each other."
—Tariel, Reckoner of Souls , They once sought to unite with the flame of transcendence. Now they seek only to extinguish the lights of others. , "More horrible than their empty forms are their noble eyes. I dare not strike."
—Klattic, Boros legionnaire , Everyone is manipulated. It's just more obvious with the dead. , Ugin's magic reaches beyond the dragons. The clans have adapted it for war. , It draws its strength from those around it, but the pleasure of destruction is all its own. , Being engulfed is just the beginning of the nightmare. , In death, as in life, they protect the Grand Arbiter from exposure to contrary points of view. , "One does not question the size or shape of the grains of sand in an hourglass. Nor do I question the temperament of the souls under my guidance." , "If you call the wolves, ensure you have a worthy hunt, or you may become the hunted."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , While defending their southern borders, both the Wu and Shu kingdoms fought against the barbarians' trained elephants. , "How can anyone fight so much yet enjoy it so little?"
—The Western Paladin , "You have given all to your kingdom, dear knight. Serenity shall be your prize."
—Queen Lian , One glamer leads him far from home. The next washes away his memory that home was ever anywhere but at her side. , "As long as we can utter a prayer or lift a weapon, we have the power to fight back."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar , "It's better to carry a little extra weight than to find yourself halfway down a baloth's throat with no knife."
—Doral, Bala Ged guide , Vulshok shamans could never keep them alive for more than a few seconds, yet those few seconds seemed to be enough. , With the harvest of Domri's spark, the Elderspell began to fuel Bolas's ascension to godhood. , Acolytes of Purphoros hammer the world until they see the sparks of change. , The Pardic Mountains are known for their spicy cuisine. , Sparkmages are performance artists of sorts, but pain is the price of admission. , "A touch of lightning, and anyone can be taught to dance."
—Tobin, sparkmage , "To invent is to rebel."
—Pia Nalaar , "I know they're unstoppable fighters created to harvest souls—it's just they're so rude about it."
—Kaya , "If it didn't hurt, how would I know it worked?" , It's the only kind of shower goblins will tolerate. , Fools believe that Kolaghan's brood follows lightning storms. The wise know that it is the other way around. , Izzet-designed conductors atop Sunhome charge empty sets of armor that give form to the fluctuating elementals. , The trainers were a gift of gratitude from the wizards of Tolaria West to the knights of New Benalia for their aid during the Talas Incursion. , "Part drill sergeant, part training dummy," thought Gerrard. "I hope it can stand up to a real war." , Aspiring to earn their place in the afterlife, acolytes train every day against those who fell short of that glory. , Time is the one shackle you can't break.
—Zhalfirin aphorism , "For those without the Planeswalker spark, the merest touch of the Blind Eternities can kill."
—Ugin , At last Urza's powers were focused through the incredible artifact. "Who wants pancakes?" he asked. , "Follow me. Step lightly. And resist the urge to kick them." , "The trick isn't setting up the bad trade. It's making each side think it got the better deal." , Young Eldrazi crawl forth from the dust, compelled by a greater will. , Death by death, Kozilek's lineage spread. , It's the only water source in miles of desert, but the local tribes avoid it at all costs. , "Straight from the blood-drenched imagination of our illustrious parun!"
—Nyoser, Gore-House ringleader , Sparks from Purphoros's forge fill the belly of every dragon. , Its victims feel only an itchy, wriggling feeling just under their skin. By then, it's far too late. , "All are welcome in the angels' light." , Few Nayans dare hunt the gargantuans. They're regarded not as animals but as forces of nature, like landslides or typhoons. , Legend speaks of the Sun Spear, the mighty weapon that can strike any point in Theros, even the depths of the Underworld. , "Don't waste time aiming, you lazy gob-slug! Fire!"
—Krenko, mob boss , "We raised eelhawks to control the squidflies, then waspcrabs to prey on the eelhawks. Now what do we do with all these waspcrabs?"
—Gulistan, Simic biomancer , "I don't have anything against Snapdax. I'm just more of a dog person." , The loudest and most heartfelt cheers come from the cheap seats. , "Imagine having your skeleton extracted through your ear, one bone at a time."
—Corliss the Wanderer , As he gritted his teeth to focus through the pain, Tahngarth glanced at Takara. She seemed completely unaffected. , "I hear there are bears—or spirits—that guard caravans passing through the forest."
—Gulsen, abbey matron , "The church looks down on binding spirits into armor, but now I can look down on them."
—Dierk, geistmage , "The spirits of old have not left us unguarded."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder , "A treasure to guard other treasures is worth the highest price."
—Mtai, Civic Guildmage , A shadowy version of its corporeal cousin, this lynx hunts souls, not meals. , "I need never remember my past associates, my victims, my mistakes. Innistrad preserves them all for me."
—Sorin Markov , "My predecessors taught me of duty and commitment. It seems they have more to teach."
—Wendin, veteran cathar , Never a word. Never a warning. Only the sound of hoofbeats along the crossways, and the screams of the avenged. , "Any ship that sails on these mean seas for long is bound to pick up a ghost or two."
—Admiral Beckett Brass , The first searchlights were given as gifts, symbols of cooperation, to the emissaries present at the signing of the Guildpact. , The restless geists of common folk often continue their lifelong labors. , "What can be a stronger shield than concealment? Have you ever defeated an enemy you didn't know existed?"
—Gerda Äagesdotter, Archmage of the Unseen , "Sure, I've seen agents of the Cabal here and there. Well, not here, and certainly not in any of the sliver labs. Oh dear, I've said too much."
—Apprentice researcher , If her vehicle even has a brake, she couldn't tell you which pedal it is. , "No mage's deception can harm those who keep nature balanced." , Call it the thinking mage's version of brute force. , "Everything the wise woman learned she wrote in a book, and when the pages were black with ink, she took white ink and began again."
—Karn, silver golem , A king in Jund, a serf in Esper. , "Some think its immunity to countermagic evolved because of the constant mage attacks on Naya. I think it just ate a bunch of wizards."
—Broka, drumhunter , The brutish mage's version of thinking. , Playing *Unhinged*, . . . , "The monster that scares me the most isn't the biggest."
—Taelya, Lavabrink pyromage , The epidemic insanity had a lasting effect on certain barbarians—but no one noticed. , Freed from their respective labs, the two weirds formed a partnership, feeding on the arcane energies of war. , Thaumaturges remain silent around chimeras, lest their words conjure even stranger beasts. , They worked well as a team, but they knew it couldn't last forever. , "A fool's fire is quickly quenched."
—Shaper Kumena , "Like water, mana will drain from an inferior vessel."
—Jalan Tosk, Simic forcemage , Mages and warriors recruited from across Kylem display their skills at Valor's Reach. , A snap of fingers, a snap of teeth. , "Let's show Vorinclex that progress doesn't always need teeth or claws."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis , With practice, the measurement of magic can lead to its mastery. , "Magic cast through a hand of flesh is just as weak as the flesh itself."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn , "Good night." , S-U-C-K , Warrik Brutehexer felt betrayed that his aura favored the depths of the Wanderbrine River over its rightful place, hovering around him. , His assistants calculate the amount of the tribute. He measures out the punishment for delinquency. , Synchronized spell weaving is a difficult but rewarding skill to master. , "They were once our brothers and sisters."
—Etha, former Rhet-crop initiate , "You'd think that their big glowing eyes would be almost hypnotic to look at. In fact, it's the other way around—they are entranced by nearly everything they see."
—Balecki, Spellwild druid , Duty subdues instinct. , Grace repels darkness. , Law smothers anarchy. , Purity rejects artifice. , Reason exposes deception. , A sphere pushes equally in all directions. , The Rakdos believe that all are eager to join their revels, even when told otherwise. , Truth tempers fanaticism. , Its host's final curse lies captured within. , Riddles draw you in, paradoxes hold you fast, and answers shatter your perception. , "I would be a fool if I taught you everything I know." , "I do not understand the future I see: the guilds subverted, the world at war, armies bent to a cruel conqueror's will." , "Even if the sphinxes do know the location of every relic, getting one to talk is harder than just searching yourself."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House , "A riddle is nothing more than a trap for small minds, baited with the promise of understanding." , Azorius sphinxes are loyal to the precepts of the law, not to any particular guildmaster—even one of their own kind. , "I've dreamt of the future, Isperia. Danger is on the horizon. You must heed my warning." , He answers questions as readily as he asks them, but his answer is always "no." , He watches in silence as the shadows shift, bringing Amonkhet ever nearer to the Hour of Revelation. , No one has properly answered her favorite riddle: "Why should I spare your life?" , "Be still."
—Azor , Few dare to brave the Dakra Isles. Those who return are forever changed. , He calls a riddle through the gaps of cloven clouds, hoping for an answer. , "Do not think me blind to your true mission...or your true master, Grand Arbiter." , "What rises without legs, whispers without a voice, bites without teeth, and dies without having life?" , "Let the knowledge of absolute law inspire you to live a life of absolute order." , "You've never considered the implications of dealing with another telepath, Jace." , It hardly weighs anything, but it takes all day to remove. , "Dragons are our betters, but we will fight them if our dragonlord orders it." , Auntie Flint was the first to pioneer the spiderwig, a mass of arachnids intended to be worn rather than eaten. , There are no safe paths through the Trial of Strength. , If a baloth isn't hungry, it's dead. , undefined , For the Rakdos, "suicidal charge" and "good showmanship" are one and the same. , Now that he knows a thousand ways of hurting people, his next shamanic quest is to discover a thousand more. , "Proximity discouraged. Do not approach."
—Vulshok field guide , "The spell will have to wait," said Alexi, pointing up. "Drakes." , Drakelings fish with their tails, angling to snare succulent thoughts and memories on their psychic hooks. , The conquistadors surrounded the dinosaur only to find that it had outflanked them. , It dodges waves of water to prepare for waves of magic. , "Just wait—I have a response." , "Every street's a stage, and every screaming bystander's an audience." , The Golgari adorn themselves with the exoskeletons of iridescent insects. It's only fair the insects do likewise. , "This one has not screamed enough to show effective implantation. Kill it."
—Volrath , "Striking silent as a dream, Cutting short the strangled scream . . ."
—Tobrian, "Watchdragon" , It rolls with the punches. , Sea brine for blood, washing foam for laughter. , "How cute. Does it do any other tricks?"
—Braids, dementia summoner , Its spines are prized as writing quills by the priests of Gix. , "Slivers are evil and slivers are sly; And if you get eaten, then no one will cry."
—Mogg children's rhyme , "I appreciate the depravity of noble designs turned to devious ends."
—Tezzeret , "As it moved, the wurm's spines gathered up bits of flowstone, which took the shapes of dead villagers' heads. Each head spoke a single sound, but if taken together, they said, 'Alas for the living.'"
—Dal myth of the wurm , "If you think twice, I'll cut twice." , What it lacks in backbone, it makes up for in cruelty. , "It will be battle-ready before our strike at Oxid Ridge, and it will guarantee our victory."
—Ketuc of the Helm , Each new generation of slivers evolves to assimilate the strengths of the prey upon which their progenitors fed. , "Though long forgotten, the wheel continued to turn, spinning fate from a dusty attic."
—*Beyond the Great Henge* , "I never move the same way twice. Those rotters can't grasp chaos." , The akki knew to stay indoors on the days the oni flew their kites. , Goblin lessons include the 2,071 tips for survival. Frek only remembered 2,070. , There's so much more to Ghirapur than can be accessed by traditional roads. , From thrilling combat to unparalleled vistas, Valor's Reach has it all. , The longer it soars above the shimmering swirls of the Quicksilver Sea, the more it adopts their unpredictability. , Its mandibles can leave a rider in the clouds astride a headless griffin. , Each monitor is given an eye for each spire it is to guard. , A beacon of prosperity to some, a shadow of oppression to others. , "After I examine your cargo and check your papers, you can be on your way." , A mirror to draw its eye, a rod to rouse its rage, and a sword to break its bonds. , "The Consulate promised that we would all have access to aether. I'm just keeping them honest." , Cartographers on Ravnica chart not just the horizontal, but also the vertical. , The fear of slipping from the geist's tenuous grip overwhelmed Tolo's joy at his first flight. , Designed by Justin Gary , The most beautiful souls shine even in death. , Death free throat from thirst, mouth from speech, feet from earth.
—Kor requiem , "We are all inextricably linked, souls woven in tapestry." , The shield of unimpeachable purity is as strong as any wrought on the anvil. , Great evil weighs on the soul. , "Our victory must come from all of Dominaria, or it will not come."
—Urza , Thieves know that a snarl in the night means, "Rob another house." , The bonds of the pack transcend time and death. , Students at the Dekatia Academy learn that being sent to study with her is a lesson in itself. , Summoned for all the wrong seasons. , She breathes fair winds to tired griffins and lifts songbirds beyond the reach of stalking cats. , At times, survival must outweigh all other considerations. , Trapped in safety is still trapped. , Hope is born within. , "There is purity in all things. Even hatred."
—Lieutenant Kirtar , "Let my hope be your shield." , Disaster stalks with gaping jaws across unready lands. , Cinder beliefs revolve around the Path of Sorrow, a spiritual descent into oblivion. They don't mind taking others on their journey down. , "Only a fool takes Phenax at his word. What do you expect from a god born of lies and betrayal?"
—Verenes, priest of Iroas , Like most creatures bent on total destruction, they rarely bother to double-check their targets. , Having infiltrated the Lunarch Council, the Skirsdag await the perfect moment to strike. , The devil appreciated the irony of using doves for ammunition. The townsfolk, not so much. , "Let us remind these human cattle why they fear the shadows of this world."
—Aldreg, Skirsdag cultist , Victories against the hive are tragedies. , Knowledge brings the sting of disillusionment, but the pain teaches perspective. , "I knew a creature carved from a dream of wild freedom. Any attempt to leash or exploit it failed, and at terrible cost."
—Ashling , "Wait 'til Toggo sees this!" , "If you hear a choking sort of cough, it's about to get really hot."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter , It prefers its meals cooked. , "Within each of you is the strength of a landslide."
—Kumano, to his pupils , Spitting is the customary greeting between a creature and its magical impostor. , "Our lances' reach had been our saving grace in our fight against the hive. Now even that advantage is taken from us."
—Adom Capashen, Benalish knight , The mask isn't meant to hide his identity. It's meant to keep the viscera out of his eyes. , "Wherever you are in the city, you can feel the presence of the God-Pharaoh. Take comfort in that."
—Ukhat, vizier of initiation , "No matter how much a plane has suffered, there is a way to restore it."
—Nissa Revane , "I know just the person for that job." , "I wish there were no use for those with my talents. I wish that I could walk Kamigawa forgotten and unneeded, with no war wounds to heal and no broken bones to mend." , All faeries delve for dreams. But not all wait for their victims to fall asleep. , Survival itself is no small reward. , "There are always leftovers."
—Derecht, flesh carver , "Virtue has its rewards, as does its opposite."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , "This is the fun part!"
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician , Graffiti of the "leaking spire" symbol is found wherever the renegades have been. , "Heat of battle" is usually a metaphor. , "Amazing! And I was only trying to teach her to sit!" , Saprolings always thrive on the ruins of others, and Mercadia ruins more than most. , Seeds from Jund don't drift gently on the wind. They get up and stampede. , After years of taunts and aerial assaults from Rankle's minions, the witches of Maraleaf Forest acquired new familiars. , "The identifying ornamental growths of alpha thallids may be hereditary, or catalyzed by some chemical signal."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III* , A progenitor of tadpoles and allergies in equal measure. , "If you threaten its territory, it produces spores. Actually, no matter what you do, it produces spores."
—Hadi Kasten, Calla Dale naturalist , As the irrepressible power of a dormant Multani courses through Yavimaya, the forest passes judgment on travelers and natives alike. Only the fungus prospers. , It spins its web throughout the undercity, strange growths sprouting in its wake. , When the cat flies and the bird stalks, guard your horses carefully. , "Hang on. I'm just tidying up."
—Chandra Nalaar , The cruelest strain of plague keeps its hosts alive long enough to return home and infect their families. , "What is this foul presence that defies the sun's cleansing rays?"
—Itzama the Crested , Most inhabitants of Zendikar have given up on the idea of an accurate map. , Life is ephemeral. Phyrexia is eternal. , "New growth applies a healing poultice to wounds long scabbed over." , The ground trembled in a violent purr. , "Better for a doun to lose its cenn than its springjacks." , "Stop trying to pierce the hide. Hit where it's softest: ankle, sole, hamstring."
—Master Hunter Chevill , "The music is in the drum. I simply coax it out to be heard." , Hope and courage bloom in her wake. , Bathing in this spring could cure ailments of body and mind alike. , "Every evil destroyed is a strike against the enemy."
—Erold, Gatstaf springsage , Size of a pixie, rage of a hellkite. , "By thorn and by stone, we will fight to see the day when beauty returns to this world." , Centuries of temporal strife had stripped Dominaria of its natural defenses, but nature fought back with armies constructed of little more than grime and sunlight. , A hydra tender's problem isn't having enough defenses but enough pots. , The vast network of predation on Jund has actually caused some strange creatures to adapt to being eaten. , Grapplers hunt in packs, driving their victims over steep mountain cliffs. , "Our unity humbles our foes." , After a few painful experiences, goblins learned not to pick their noses around the beasts. , "That pigeon knows something, and we will find out what."
—X , Imitation is the sincerest form of treachery. , The strength of the one is the strength of the many. , "To-night the winds begin to rise . . . The rooks are blown about the skies . . . ."
—Alfred, Lord Tennyson, In Memoriam , "The scouts claim the cold has malice, and a mind. I begin to believe them. Impassable drifts seem to appear before us at every turn."
—Aevar Borg, northern guide, journal entry , The constant shifting of Dominaria's shredded timeline played havoc with its atmosphere, combining savage electrical storms from ages past. , "Squall, gale, hurricane—it's all a matter of size . . . and price." , "He traded sand for skins, skins for gold, gold for life. In the end, he traded life for sand."
—Afari, *Tales* , "Why do our pies squeak? It's all the faeries, mice, and prickly-hogs we stuff inside."
—Borb of the Squeaking Pie warren , "Some goblins are expendable. Some are impossible to get rid of. But he's both—at the same time!"
—Starke , As the horrors closed in on Gerrard, Squee trembled and clutched his toy for comfort. He didn't know where it came from or why it was so warm, but he was glad he'd kept it near. , "You gotta be pretty smart to live long as me, but not being able to die helps." , Any pirate would prefer Rishada's swift and cruel justice to Saprazzo's patient punishments. , Oku-Doku had gone through all the motions: the same akki cursewords, the same ingredients with their horrid stink, the same rude gestures. Yet not a person died. , Setting foot in their muck is an open invitation. , "Of twenty yeer of age he was, I gesse. Of his stature he was of evene lengthe. And wonderly delyvere, and of greete strengthe."
—Geoffrey Chaucer,
*The Canterbury Tales* , Only the coldest hearts and the strongest stomachs can stand against it. , "You see that sheen on the fur? The glint in their eyes? Top quality. These are the real deal." , "And the ignorant shall fall to the squirrels."
—Chip 2:54 , An army of squirrels is still an army. , In the treetops, unseen by many, lurks chittering, skittering death. , Lucinda didn't know which she enjoyed most: the science, the squirrels, or the maniacal laughter. , "Gnawed to death. Bad way to go." , "As this conflict grows, it gets harder to prevent the city from breaking down. How much longer can we keep this machinery balanced?" , "It's important to always have the right tool for the job. This one is for picking my teeth." , "You can take the fight out of nearly any creature if you know where its soft spot is."
—Guttor, flesh-warper , "Hold that thought."
—Pemmin, Riptide survivor , "Potions! Mana potions, health potions, energy potions—get your potions here!" , "I have attuned the staff to your screams so that only I may benefit from your pain."
—Volux, disciple of Nin , "We found this staff useful on our visit to this very commission. Would Relicbane prefer we had been slain by Lim-Dûl's horrors?"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , A symbol of ambition in ruthless times. , A symbol of passion in indifferent times. , A symbol of _________ in _________ times. , A symbol of sagacity in bewildering times. , A symbol of conviction in uncertain times. , A symbol of ferocity in oppressive times. , Though Mishra was impressed by the staves Ashnod had created for Zegon's defense, he understood they only hinted at her full potential. , Its voice crackles with the hum of a thousand wings beating at once. , "Only cowards flee from the truth."
—Perisophia the philosopher , Her hunt is silent until a bone snaps or flesh tears. Her victims never know to scream. , The pits feed both its thirst for combat and its thirst for blood. , As the Eldrazi adapted to the jungles of Zendikar, some took on the tactics of more familiar predators. , In the Jamuraan jungles, there is often no separating beauty from danger. , Something roams the killing places, sniffing the guilt of the slayers, stalking them on iron paws. , Echoing hoofbeats can no longer be assumed to be help from the Gavony Riders. , "Hold fast the line! Either we stop them here or we wake up in their guts!"
—Tala Vertan, Makindi shieldmate , "We could see the horizon blacken with the great beasts, but it was too late. The icefield offered no immediate safety, but luckily most of us reached a crevasse in which we could take cover."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "The thunder of hooves is music to my ears." , To a satyr, a stampede is just another kind of revelry. , The Atarka use them not just for food, but also to clear away snow, trees, and enemy forces. , When the golden city opened, the dinosaurs inside were eager to greet the new visitors. , The quickest way to get through the jungle is to agitate a rhino and run in its wake. , The most violent and destructive storms in Femeref occur on cloudless days. , A truly symbolic advantage. , The standard was a rallying point for the army and a target for the enemy. , At that point, the wizards' argument got a lot uglier. , They're the chair-men of the bored. , "Bant sentries were called the Angel Line. They never faltered, and they were ready to die defending their position."
—Elspeth Tirel , "Take your time." , Strange times make for strange allies. , It doesn't point north. It points home. , White as starlight on snow, it appears only on the eve of the winter solstice. , "The most brilliant stars are not born of Nyx."
—Rhexenor, Akroan flamespeaker , "The realm of the gods opens before me!" , "I know to whom I owe the most loyalty, and I see him in the mirror every day."
—Starke , "Even in the darkest night Stars and angels still shine bright."
—Onean children's rhyme , "The constellations form a tapestry of light that traces my people's broken history. Day and night, I feel their glittering presence calling me to weave the pattern whole." , To soar as high as hope, to dive as swift as justice. , "The visions haunt me. I see the end of the world, brought on by the search for the Immortal Sun."
—Shaper Pashona , Ever since the disaster, the city's survivors viewed the star-strewn sky with dread. , undefined , Remarkably, dinner continued with no further interruptions. , Inventors from around the world have come to the Fair hoping their creations will fly, drive, or sail their way to a top prize. , "No more wretched fate is there than to waste away. If you are slain, your ghost may at least avenge itself upon your killer. But what release is there for one slain by Time?"
—Ilromov, traveling storyteller , The Simic created the cells to preserve their experiments. The Azorius put the cells to use on the guilty. , Though the grip of a golem is strong, the grip of Auriok magic is far stronger. , "Inside these walls, peace; outside, sharks. You choose."
—Saprazzan vizier , The warriors fought against the paralyzing waves until even their thoughts froze in place. , "Pyrotechnic activity of any sort is strictly prohibited. It is irrelevant that today is a holiday." , "Hold your position! Leave doubt for the dying!"
—Tahngarth of the Weatherlight , As soon as she faces a monster, she begins composing its epitaph. , "Gilded with gold from a dragon's trove, it is! And etched with the image of the dragon I slew to take it." , "Just a moment of perfect grace and sanctity is enough."
—Kal Lior, leonin elder , Mongo's fleas no longer bothered him. But the family of goblins that had moved in behind his left ear was starting to get really irritating. , "Like the mighty armasaur, we will defend against all who invade our shores."
—Itzama the Crested , "The most resolute soldiers will press forward in the face of overwhelming odds."
—Gideon Jura , "Best leave your tongue in its yap-hole, Mercadian scum, for your silvered words and golden bribes do not sparkle so brightly outside your city." , Brute force wins the battles. Conviction wins the wars. , "Get up, slugabeds! We've got company, and they're not dressed for a party!" , The archer's heart broke seeing her compatriots die far below, but she held position until the enemy was in range. , A mook's life span is just long enough to get just good enough to get careless. , "More of that strange oil . . . It's probably nothing." , "Why should I flatter another with imitation when I can satisfy myself through possession?"
—Ertai, wizard adept , The Dimir would hire her, if only they knew where she lived. The Azorius would condemn her, if only they knew her name. , With each grunt of pain from Haddad, Greel's grin widened. , "What they don't know will definitely hurt them."
—Lazav , Keranos is a fickle god, delivering punishment as readily as prophecy. , The viashino knew of the cracked pipes but deliberately left them unmended to bolster the rig's defenses. , "You idiots! Turn it around! Turn it around!" , "There's dead, and then there's *dead* dead."
—Steamclaw driver , Like many Izzet creations, weirds are based on wild contradictions yet somehow manage to work. , "Whip the Xs ! Pinch the Os! What we're building, no one knows!" , The perks aren't great. , It's more like a hard day of lunch with a work break between shifts. , When you're dumber than a hammer, every problem looks like one of those things you hit with a hammer. , Goblins only have two speeds: hard loaf and full-on hammer freak-out. , "Is it merchants or is it pirates?"
"It's Talas—there's no difference." , Its belly produces a boiling-hot fluid it can spit as a weapon or spin slowly enough to freeze into a defensive web. , "A massive new Izzet building project with an unstated purpose? Probably fine."
—Zija, Simic mutationist , Many an ancient treasure has been reduced to jagged caltrops by its snapping jaws. , "From the highest towers to the deepest sea, all life must be touched by etherium."
—Lodus of the Ethersworn , "A traditional lance is fine for the Burning Yard, but in the wilds you need a nastier bite."
—Kenver, Embereth weaponsmith , "Though the slivers may sometimes resemble us, they are not human. Anyone who fights them must remember this."
—Sarlena, paladin of the Northern Verge , "If we didn't guard our secrets, they wouldn't remain secrets for long."
—Gadwick, the Wizened , "Once you create perfection, what else is there to make?"
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist , One eye open to see the truth of the world. One eye covered to gaze at the goddess within. , "The world is already run by all manner of machines. One day, they'll remind us of that fact."
—Sargis Haz, artificer , The defenders watched in terror as the flying V split apart into a bristling battle formation. , "You are hopelessly obsolete, my brothers. Come and join the Great Work."
—Rhmir, Hand of the Augur , Theirs is a craft brought about by necessity, now raised to the level of art. , Some blades seek their own wielders. , Q: Where does a mechanical squirrel hide its nuts?
A: In a bolt hole. , "We sculpt the land into what we need—homes, armament, fortresses of war. Our strength comes not only from knowing, but from commanding the terrain."
—Raksha Golden Cub, leonin kha , No one in Wirewood understands what is happening. They just know it's unnatural—and coming from Krosa. , "If the Fin Clade cannot produce a reliable venomous krasis, mobile in both air and water, then the Guardian Project will absorb its resources."
—Vannifar , "Sometimes it forgets to loosen its grip before taking flight. I lost my roof that way."
—Ecaban, Boros scout , "Disa is dead, and I am left. I shall allow no others to succumb to this pestilence."
—Kolbjörn, High Honored Druid , "Many believe it to be the manifestation of all that is vile about the boggarts. I believe it should be avoided—from upwind, if possible."
—Cenn Deagan , "We can't win a war on an empty stomach, can we?"
—Olivia Voldaren , The revelry ends when the supply of fresh ingenues runs dry. , "The perils of the road, you say? Don't worry. You won't have to face those again." , It glides over the landscape. It also happens to be one. , Nothing quickens the predator's blood like the unfamiliar scents of new hunting grounds and the mewling cries of new prey. , "I'm sure you have a story. Everyone has a story. You can tell it to the bars." , Cities offer tribute to Ephara and carve her image into their walls, imploring her to protect them from the dangers of the wild. , "How to punish the guilty is up to the Ancestor. Deciding who merits such punishment is up to me." , "I preferred the harsh tutors—they made mischief all the more fun."
—Teferi, third-level student , In the midst of disaster, heroic acts became almost ordinary, and ordinary warriors became heroes. , Knight-stewards guard the Sun-Dappled Court, a grove of immense, sculptured olive trees that represent Valeron's twelve noble families. , "Superior force meets woefully inadequate object. What paradox were you expecting?"
—Azguri, archmage of Evos Isle , The Extinguisher's curse lasted long after her departure. , The centaurs' simple magic can undo a basilisk's gaze, but only for a short time. , The juiciest prey is that which grows lazy, thinking itself beyond the reach of danger. , Starfish are its favorite prey. , Initiates must train to resist the natural toxins they use as weapons. , A path vexed by the stingmoggie was probably the wrong path anyhow. , Boggarts constantly strive to outdo each other with the things they bring back to the warren, each hoping the exploit will become as well-known as those of Auntie Grub. , "For glory! For justice! For our queen!" , "Your lungs may not draw breath, but while your hands can grip a sword, you will be useful to me."
—Nighteyes, nezumi necromancer , "The best skaabs are more powerful and more beautiful than the sum of their parts."
—Stitcher Geralf , "Oglor create life, Oglor take it away. Oglor god! … until Master return." , No part goes to waste. , Quyzl was told by his mentor to "make more time" for his studies. , "Amazing, isn't it, how scraps can come together to create such a wonder?"
—Stitcher Geralf , Even the most battle-hardened soldiers pause in her presence for a moment of introspection. , Some have returned to Hollowhenge, the ruins of Avabruck, to restore the lost capital of Kessig. , His outer calm belies his inner fury. , "Life is fleeting, and so is death. Only the oath is eternal." , Obsessed with the pursuit of knowledge above all else, vedalken can appear to be cold and emotionless. , Denizens of the wilds don't always seek to harm intruders. Sometimes they simply misplace them. , At the battle of Guandu, Cao Cao defeated Yuan Shao by raiding his grain depot, leaving him with no way to feed his troops. , "Mizzium may be impervious to fire, but obviously certain other things can . . . modify its form."
—Ivos Koba, indrik handler , "This one is only a yearling, but it would be wise to move away before we provide it with excellent hunting practice."
—Samila, Murasa Expeditionary House , "What we begin, the End-Raze will finish. Then we will dance in Ravnica's rubble."
—Nikya of the Old Ways , Moments after a fickle rift dropped Stonebrow in the waste of his beloved Krosa, he took up his axe in rage-blind vengeance. , The Pretender Mairsil ordered a great calendar drawn up to show when the paths to the Dark Lands were strongest. , Cast out of Garenbrig for his crimes, Ennor turned to fae magic to fashion the perfect weapon for his revenge. , The Izzet's plans to exploit the undercity ran into a few stubborn obstacles. , "The stone speaks. We are merely interpreters." , The nomadic kor carry only necessities on their long treks. The coming of the Eldrazi redefined "necessities." , Akoum can make any intruder look small. , A typical day for a giant. A momentous event for a goat. , The sculptor, like most artists, put his heart and soul into his work. But the newly awakened golem decided it wanted its creator's other, more tangible parts. , "Trust in the power of stone. Stone is strong; stone shatters swords; stone breaks bones. Trust in stone."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain , "These days, soldiers never stick around long enough for a proper healing. They just want me to knit them up so they can hurry back to the fight." , The makers and menders are the first called to battle and the last to leave. , The persistence to overcome obstacles is the most esteemed of kor virtues. , "No matter how strong, an unarmed fighter is no more than a fool." , The pounding of his followers' hearts matched the beat of his hooves, and their voices echoed his bellows. , With the Stonehorn, piety and power are one. , It did not escape the ambassador's notice that the sound of war drums could also marshal the city to attention. , To maintain its hide, it consumes a variety of rocks—not to mention a variety of Phyrexians. , The Sun Empire's cities are built from the bones of the earth. , I cast a thousand tiny suns— Beware my many dawns. , Her touch brings to bare stone what water and sun bring to rich soil. , There is no place in Ravnica for stagnation, no room for lands unfilled and untilled. , "The spirit of the stone is the spirit of strength."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain , Ephara taught some mortals to feel every vein in marble as though it flows with their own blood. , "Might of ancient wood and stone, Into spirit, flesh, and bone." , The Mirari pulses in his veins. , It will happily carry home your treasure or drag you back to civilization, as circumstances demand. , "We suffer uneasy ground, unstable alliances, and unpredictable magic. Something you can truly trust is worth more than a chest of gold."
—Nikou, Joraga bard , "Water is in the air, the trees, and the earth. Understand its motion, speak its language, and the subtle currents that flow through all living things will fall under your command." , Made from trout scales and crawfish whiskers, merrows' shimmering banners flash in the water like lightning. , Merrow schools rarely form by design. They come together naturally as eager learners surround the wisest teachers. , The relic's purpose? Its design? Whatever the intent, it is now a mere curiosity that breaks up the horizon. , "What you build, we will destroy . . . and bury you in the rubble!" , Now for a squirt of lemon juice. , "Once, our people could call down the storm itself to do our bidding."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain , Blood is holy to those whose god is War. , He became elder shaman when his predecessor was mysteriously struck by lightning on a cloudless day. , A prayer answered by Keranos is clear for all to witness. , Roilmages' tactics are as chaotic as the energies they channel. , As fickle as lightning, as slippery as an eel. , The spirits of all the rivers and oceans came together as an unstoppable force, unleashing their fury as lightning and thunder. , The storms of Tarkir awaken more than dragons. , Storm crow descending, winter unending. Storm crow departing, summer is starting. , Dweldian magi don't enter the Realm of Thrones when they die. Instead their souls are drawn to great works of magic. , "As she reached the pinnacle, lightning flashed and her eyes blazed with newfound power."
—*Legend of the Gilded Knights* , "Only one thing beats the freedom of the sea: the freedom of the sky." , "Go ahead, build another. I'll burn that down as well." , "Charge like a red-hot cannonball straight to your target. You slow down, you sink."
—Captain Lannery Storm , "They're searching in the same direction we are. And for the same thing, I'll wager." , "A bolt to the eye, a blade to the neck. That's the way to clear the deck!" , The calmest day on Rath would be thought a storm anywhere else. , Its hooves touch the earth only when a hero must rise. , "When you hear thunder on a cloudless day, take cover and brace for the coming of the storm herd."
—Skotov, Tin Street basket vendor , Thunder isn't all that follows lightning. , Each Stormscape apprentice must hand-raise and train an owl before attaining the rank of master. , In his hands, the wind can become a weapon or a means of escape. , She speaks with the voice of the winds, and the earth trembles. , "Come to us, with your lightning. Come to us, with your thunder. Serve us with your strength, and smite our foes with your power."
—Steinar Icefist, Balduvian shaman , "My shout is thunder and my fist is lightning!" , Most see krakens as wantonly violent, failing to notice their meticulous attention to detail when dismantling a vessel. , Distant thunder rumbled, a dread forewarning of Keranos's displeasure. , "If we die, we die. But we cannot let him win."
—Ajani Goldmane , undefined , When eagles leave the sky, sailors leave the sea. , After a disastrous day of battle, Lavabrink's lightning mages were recalled. , In times of war, only death flourishes. , "All right, let's light 'em up!"
—Gerrard , When the strands call, only the dead answer. , "Why limit yourself to mortal law when you can outlive those who enforce it?"
—Czaric, Orzhov prelate , The correct answer to a barbarian's riddle is to choke on your cleverness and die. , Geists of the hanged often haunt the tree on which they died. , "What good is your blade without your breath?"
—Greht, Gathan warlord , Imagine a thousand tiny mushrooms cropping up within your lungs. , Designed like the gargadons of Keld—big and brutal. , "Bolas remade this place in his image. He has the advantage here. We must approach carefully."
—Jace Beleren , The "Days of Darkness" mark the stratozeppelids' annual migration, when for five days they blot out the sun and trumpet their passing. , "Don't look at me. *I* didn't build it."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , The overnight appearance of miles of "armed" Wu forts at Guangling frightened a much vaster Wei force into fleeing for their lives. , "We look in the river and see scattered stones. A merrow looks and sees a map of Lorwyn."
—Illulia, flamekin soulstoke , Like many who dwell in Shadowmoor now, he was robbed of his better half by the Aurora. , "All things return to their beginnings. The waters that spill across the Kamitaki Falls flow to sea, only to be returned to her as the rain that joins the mighty river."
—Dosan the Falling Leaf , Dreams are tempting because one is so powerful in them. Dreams are dangerous because that power is a lie. , The Orzhov run a construction unit whose only business is rebuilding the wreckage left in the wake of wurms. When business is slow, they pay Golgari carnomancers to lure the wurms to the surface. , "They said obey and you'll be happy. They said you'll be safe. But we're not safe. We're not happy. And we will not obey."
—Domri Rade , "It takes more than swift feet and dark shadows to slip by me unnoticed." , The sweepers roam endlessly, scrubbing away the refuse—and anything else too slow or too clumsy to get out of their way. , The lamps on Wyndmoor Street snuff themselves at midnight and refuse to relight, afraid to illuminate what lies in the darkness. , "The hermit dies. The outcast dies. The lone wolf dies. Only those who stick together survive this world."
—Uros, Pendelhaven elder , "We fight not for Avacyn, but for her ideals; not for the church, but for its people."
—Thalia, Guardian of Thraben , "No sooner had the beast collapsed under the blows of Takeno's sword than the earth rippled and the creature rose again to face him."
—*Battle of Akagi River: A Survivor's Tale* , Don't mistake isolation for safety. , Don't confuse lunacy with courage. , "This expedition doesn't succeed unless we all succeed!" , The pack that ambushes, eviscerates, and devours together stays together. , All Dominarians agreed on one thing: they would not go down without a fight. , "Because the giant, implacable death lizard wasn't scary enough already."
—Captain Brinely Rage , You're too busy recoiling in fear to realize that it's already hit you. , Its tines cannot be rung by mere physical force. Only magic of great power can start its eldritch resonance. , "All glamers lifted, all lies revealed, all flesh exposed."
—Awylla, elvish safewright , "The bear is never cautious—which is why it wasn't born a human."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , The denizens of the Luxa River woke angry on the currents of blood. , Unlike previous conflicts, the war between Urza and Mishra made Dominaria itself a casualty of war. , After a hundred failed experiments, Urza was stunned to find that common silver passed through the portal undamaged. He immediately designed a golem made of the metal. , "Kjeldor must be supreme at any cost."
—Avram Garrisson, leader of the Knights of Stromgald , "The White-Shielders think their code justifies their actions. In truth it only binds their hands." , "No longer can we allow our human populations to be mindlessly slaughtered by ghouls. Slay all who trespass."
—Runo Stromkirk , "Blood from the vein is the finest vintage to accompany a feast of the mind."
—Runo Stromkirk , The lineage of Runo Stromkirk is known for producing some of Nephalia's greatest fencing masters. , "A responsible king walks among his subjects." , "You'd best move along, human. Our palates are far less discerning than our master's." , "His companions are wise to follow him, for his foes dare not stand in his way."
—Zhiada, Dirgur protector , "If you can't pay your gambling debts, you just might be tomorrow's main attraction at the Grand Coliseum." , "No, I insist—let *me* carry all that heavy jewelry." , The assassin sees only throats and hears only heartbeats. , He twists the laws of nature until they scream. , In Urborg, the instigators of each new rebellion are soaked in the blood of the last. , She stretches the laws of physics until they snap. , In the stronghold's dungeons, the shadows hide in the vermin. , "With the completion of each joyous task, we are closer to Yawgmoth's divine vision."
—Stronghold architect, journal , As long as the stronghold controlled the sky, the rebels were doomed. , The Gruul holiday of Rauck-Chauv always ends the same way. , "As Zendikar has bled, so will Innistrad. As I have wept, so will Sorin."
—Nahiri , The Temur have no patience for subtlety. , "Human enlightenment is a firefly that sparks in the night. Dragon enlightenment is a beacon that disperses all darkness." , "I concede it was a cheap shot, but it was the only one I could afford."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight , The line between victory and defeat can be as slim as a razor's edge. , The tips of her bolts are blunt, but her aim is deadly sharp. , No duelist is without equal in Paliano. , "A warrior without wit is simply meat." , There are medicines for all afflictions but idleness.
—Suq'Ata saying , When a god's will is against you, the day never ends well. , Martha was in and out in exactly two minutes—thirty seconds to administer the poison plus a minute and a half to properly refold the napkins. , The remnants of Innistrad's corrupted angelic hosts collapsed to form the Flight of Nightmares. , Exhale, and let the winds carry your soul for all eternity. , "Long after the land has given up the last of its secrets, there will still be mysteries in the depths of the sea."
—Kiora , When things get ugly above ground, goblins resort to alternate routes of passage. , "Air hot with sulfur. / Earth heaves beneath me. / Could it be the mountain / ate something bad?"
—Dwarven mining song , The market is now closed. , Silence is an underrated hunting strategy. , Kerrick's corrupt domain swelled like a blister on Tolaria's skin. , "Those who witness my work often question its necessity. I've never understood that."
—Dr. Julius Jumblemorph , "Restraint is for the meek." , Flawed copies of relics from the Thran Empire, the su-chi were inherently unstable but provided useful knowledge for Tocasia's students. , Some mages tapped into the time rifts, forcing upon others alternate timelines in which unimaginable horrors befall them. , In the Skyfang Mountains, one misstep can mean the end of an entire clan. , "Some say it's better to think before you act. While those people are considering all the options, that's usually when I kill them."
—Dravus, lava mage , "There is no secret buried so deep that we will never find it."
—Kurtar, Sultai necromancer , Arc mages aren't known for their patience. , "What's natural on Ikoria continues to delight me."
—Vivien Reid , No matter how big and strong you are, the sea is bigger and stronger. , The Mirari's magic transformed the Krosan Forest—and its inhabitants. , "Bow before the might of—wait, what?" , Ulamog's tentacles, their touch like burning ice, rummaged through his soul and stung his memories one by one. , "Yesterday it was flying tigers and crumbling bridges. Who knows what today will bring?"
—Dol, Lavabrink quartermaster , "They think they're winning. But they're just lining up to be dinner."
—Rakka Mar , With Suleiman's ascension to power, the djinn and efreets of ancient Rabiah learned humility. , "We have inherited the mysteries of the Thran, but few of the answers."
—Jhoira , It was the dragons who first learned to chase their prey into the vapors before igniting them. , The Keldons used the toxic vents in the cracked earth to bolster their home's defenses. , Power to dominate, cruelty to rule. , "Strike," the fumes hiss. "Raise an empire with your ambition." , To the Sultai, Ugin's power was just one more resource to be exploited. , "You can have the body, necromancer. I just want the skin." , Since they guard armies of walking carrion, Sultai aven are never far from a meal. , A skullkeeper is the first to arrive after the palace archers strike down intruders, probing their brains for choice bits of knowledge. , The naga of the Sultai Brood made deals with dark forces to keep their power. , "Let's start fresh, shall we?" , Any challenge to Azorius authority is met with swift and potent retribution. , Summer sends its kiss with warmth and blooming life. , "If you climb Skyfang Peak, avoid the pass. Generations of apes made that trail, and they don't tolerate trespassers."
—Sachir, Akoum Expeditionary House , "Do you not hunt the yetis of the high peaks, stripling? Their meat is as tender as a bear's and their blood as warming as fire. They are prey that will please Atarka."
—Surrak, the Hunt Caller , "I don't need to have the perfect plan. My foe just has to have an imperfect one."
—Jace Beleren , "When merrows talk, listeners grow fins."
—Kithkin saying , Sunastian has roots in both sorcery and swordplay; he has learned never to depend too heavily on the latter. , Since the river ran dry, travelers wander where fish once swam. , "Cure that which was never ill."
—Spellbomb inscription , At Feather's command, squadrons of battle angels swarmed out of the *Parhelion II*, unsheathing blades made of molten dawn. , "We patrol the steppes to keep enemies from the forest verge." , There may exist powers even greater than Phyrexia. , When Huatli chooses a mount, its eyes glow with the flames of the sun. , "I was not chosen for my faith in the gods. Sometimes the gods must put their faith in us."
—Elspeth , "And darkness shall be cast from me For my soul resides in the Sun."
—Femeref dirge , "With Tilonalli's gifts, even the smallest of us can become great."
—Huatli , "Pterodons tolerate no intrusion into their skies. Even the clouds must ask permission."
—Mahuiz, Sun Empire archer , One alone is dangerous, and they are never alone. , The flow of time was disrupted; like a flooding river it rose from its banks. Tolaria was drowned in an instant that stretched toward infinity. , Trapped for eons within the sacred gong, the kami boomed and clanged to a deafening tempo as they destroyed their erstwhile prison. , "One day every pillar will be a tree and every hall a glade."
—Trostani , "Even if we defeat it, what remains to be saved?"
—Glissa Sunseeker , Centuries of wind, rain, and roots compressed into an instant of destruction: such is the power of Selesnya. , "You take our wilds, we take your city." , A spark to light the guttered heart. , The sacred feathers of the pegasus are said to have healing powers. , "Has your peaceful nature led you on a crusade?"
—Watnik, master glassblower , On Otaria, peace and harmony are rare. Places that provide both are cherished. , "Law soothed his savage heart. Where fury once burned, the enduring flame of order now shines."
—Razia , Sunhome—the stalwart shield, the towering sentinel, the seat of justice. , "Before I let you wield one of these, let's see you dodge one!" , The land is heavy with promise, the harvest ripe with betrayal. , On the continent of Tazeem, rushing waters plunge through narrow canyons into mist-cloaked lakes. , "I don't concern myself with my enemy's hopes. Hopes follow the tides. They will retreat soon enough."
—Ambassador Laquatus , Without the care of the tideshapers, the Lanes lie neglected. Some have flooded entire towns; others dried to cracked mud. , "It's easy for the innocent to speak of justice. They seldom feel its terrible power."
—Orim, Samite inquisitor , "Even in her absence, the light Elspeth kindled in our hearts never faltered." , Chosen by Heliod, Daxos approached the pegasus without fear, and rode it without saddle or reins. , To the Sun Empire, any place where daylight brightens the jungle floor is sacred ground. , "One score and four he reigned, the Southland king: / A dragon coiled, a tiger poised below the mighty Yangtze." , A hundred generations has he mentored, a hundred armies has he crushed beneath his feet, yet only a hundred words has he ever spoken, each more revered than a hundred books. , "Heidar has forced the sun into hiding, but it has not forgotten us." , The spirits of fallen battlemages can serve their guilds as familiars by joining with any physical form. , The only relief in sight is a mirage. , "We trust in the scalelords, bringers of justice that none can escape."
—Urdnan, Dromoka warrior , Sunseeders quest for areas of open sky. They train plowbeasts to beat back the dense jungle long enough to cultivate a crop. , Just as the sun rises at dawn and the days lengthen in the summer, the Sun Empire has awakened after long years of quiet. , Decades to build. Hours to demolish. , Left without their leader Raksha, the leonin split into two prides: one side supported the regent kha, while the other rebelled in fury. , "You will pass with respect, or you will not pass at all." , "For each griffin wounded by an arrow, there's a corpse with a bow nearby."
—Pel Javya, Wojek investigator , "I dispute Relicbane's hysterical allegations, Commissioner, but it is true that these artifacts can be dangerous."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , "They are the finest companions in the realm. Swift, clever, and easily trained to hunt intruders."
—Almira, falconer , A blazing sun that never sets. , As the fifth sun joins the other four, new abilities awaken in the creatures of Mirrodin. , Sometimes the wings of fallen dragons refuse to give up the sky. , "Comin' through!" , "All are not equal—neither in life nor after death. Bontu's favorites will stand highest in eternity."
—Senifet, vizier of Bontu , "Ooh . . . shiny!" , You want "mise" with that? , "Ice can be shaped to any form, even the whisper of a memory."
—Mytha, Temur shaman , "We each have a weight to carry on the road to the afterlife."
—Oketra, god of solidarity , They are trained from hatching to deliver aid where it is needed most. , Good dogs stay by your side until the end. Great dogs leave to bring back aid. , "A master of hieromancy can see the advantage in any scenario."
—Warden Hixus, to Kytheon , The most feared of Azorius punishments is to be freed—sent back out into the world, stripped of all magical defenses. , "It's hard to fight on an empty mind." , A king's knowledge does not vanish when the heart stops beating. , Leonos had no second thoughts about the abolishment edict. He'd left skyrunes warning of the eviction, even though it was cloudy. , "Comfortable even in a furnace? I've never met one who'd accept my wager."
—Talibah, embermage , "Never stop 'til you see your lance come out the other side."
—Telim'Tor , "I've yet to discover the ruin that can keep me out." , To survive imminent doom, it sometimes takes a foolhardy soul who acts first and fears later. , When it passes, waves touch the sky. , Without a foe to focus on, the machine priests had time to indulge in new sciences. , Though she stood alone, she struck with the force of an army. , Kithkin weave together their very thoughts, creating a depth of cooperation unknown to other races. , "If only my poxes were as infectious as their zealotry."
—Savra , Likes: augmentation, fluffy animals, creative templating. , They ride on waves of Æther, washing out anything that might pollute the Merrow Lanes. , Surrakar grab things they *don't* want. , Both his rank and his scars were earned in single combat against a cave bear. , "The greatest honor is to feed Atarka." , Their natural curiosity, combined with a knack for trespassing, makes sprites excellent spies. , Goblins and architects seldom get along. , The longest nights are measured not in hours, but in heartbeats. , "And what did we learn? Never taunt a porcuparrot!" , "What will happen to us?" they asked. The vizier paused. "I think . . . I think that's up to us now." , All the books were dusty with disuse, save the one titled *Camouflage and Its Practical Applications*. , "Afternoon, folks. Lovely day for a stroll with my authentic human baby." , You may break her shield, but you'll never break her spirit. , "Faith is our greatest protector."
—Halvor Arensson, Kjeldoran priest , Like the dryads, the forest itself willingly gives up some of its life for the sake of the future. , Is her need to heal born out of compassion or penance? , "Early Vodalians worshipped Svyelun, goddess of the Pearl Moon. Later she became a more abstract figure."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. V* , Though small, goblins can hold their own in a fight. Foolhardy confidence goes a long way. , "I'm about to make you famous. From the golden city to High and Dry, they'll talk about how fast you died!" , "We are recalling all forces from the Takenuma Swamp. We lose men daily to kami attacks, and it seems our defeats only encourage them further."
—General Takeno, letter to Lord Konda , "World's better with one fewer poacher in it."
—Winota, heartbonder , Ardennes Fagnes, Belgium , Any being that harms them quickly learns its lesson. , "The most enlightened mages create beauty from violence."
—Medomai the Ageless , The Locust God's children were numberless, relentlessly eating away every trace of the city's protection. , In the Gudul delta, bloodfly bites are indistinguishable from spear wounds. , "Rats, rats, rats! Hundreds, thousands, millions of them, and every one a life."
—Bram Stoker, *Dracula* , The Eldrazi rampaged across Zendikar in a tide of chittering, heaving flesh. , Where scavengers nest in hollowed-out rib cages and chittering crawlers peer from empty eye sockets, few dare to trespass. , The pirates of the Brazen Coalition are the descendants of those displaced by the Legion of Dusk, and they are eager for vengeance. , Few who cross Phage have the chance to repeat the mistake. , "Now do you understand what we meant when we said *disperse*?"
—Eksari, Boros patrol leader , "I suggest you take a closer look."
—Tidal visionary , The residents of Embraal were never known for finesse, just for getting things done. , The Roil takes many forms. It also takes many victims. , When memory is torment, oblivion is bliss. , "Tideshaping is more than creating a few new puddles." , "Nissa is not the only one with a deep connection to Zendikar's primal elements."
—Kiora , No circle has a beginning, but many have foreseeable ends. , The Hekma may repel storms and monsters, but nothing holds back the heat of the suns. , "We can't beat the necromancers in numbers or raw power. We must beat them with ingenuity and timing."
—Rannon, Vithian holdout , A swiftblade is an artist, each fiery trail of their blades a fleeting masterpiece traced on the air. , "There is great wisdom in rushing headlong into combat . . . if you're prepared."
—Kenjek, captain of the Thousand Swords , "Having conviction is more important than being righteous."
—Aurelia , Shintan sensed the malice in his opponent, but he did not strike until the orc's muscles tensed in preparation to throw the first punch. , Darien's call to Yavimaya would have fallen red to the snow had it not been for the agility of the aesthir. , "There's nothing quite as satisfying as delivering a good kick to the face."
—Adrasteia, Akroan captain , "This world may not know peace, but in my presence you *will* know quiet."
—Augustin IV , Its web is woven so tightly that not even geists can avoid capture. , A warning shout would take too long. , Ashiok's minions plumb the depths of the ocean and the psyche. , As dust swept out, vultures swept in. , After its encounter with the spriggan, the patrol was red with anger, green with envy, white with fear, and painfully black and blue. , "Oops!"
—Grupgrup, sluiceway technician , Say hello to your new friend. , Most soldiers think of the sword as a weapon. In the hands of Zho monks, swords are also the strongest of shields. , The blade glows only for Zendikar's chosen. , One shard of Selenia yet remained. , When wielded by a true believer, it matters little whether the sword is a relic or a replica. , "Take my blood if you want. Just don't take my gold!" , The smallest seed of regret can bloom into redemption. , The girl who would become the Champion of the Sun hacked furiously at the practice dummy. At last she stopped, breathing heavily, and looked up at her instructor. "So much anger," said the centaur. "I will teach you the ways of war, child. But first you must make peace with yourself."
—*The Theriad* , "The trouble with youths these days is that, in outright defiance of their elders, they refuse to be bought."
—Karlov of the Ghost Council , For the River Heralds, the Immortal Sun is an object of terror and devastation. The idea that anyone would retrieve it for their own use is utterly abhorrent. , "It's not a matter of deserving. It's a matter of strength. The power to hold versus the power to take." , "If there's a place worth going, the Merrow Lanes already do. And if there's a route worth taking, yours truly already has." , "The land gives of itself. Its abundance provides, even in times of chaos." , "Yavimaya is aware, but not always awake. You will know the difference when you see it."
—Karn , "We're not sure what one looks like, so to be safe, nobody look at anything until we're out of here."
—Parbold Drix, veteran explorer , Some who scouted new lands chose to stay. , The mournful lowing of brushstriders warns of changing weather and ill winds. , Those who enter the copse never leave. They find peace there and take root, becoming part of the ever-growing grove. , It takes a huntmaster's eye to discern the contours of mythical prey. , "Not all paths are found on the forest floor." , "He has been to the heart of the wood. Did you truly expect to wield power over him?"
—Oakhide druid , "As long as there is a single shred of life, there is hope."
—Nissa Revane , The whole of creation stood transfixed, silenced by the weight of anticipation. , The deeper the wood, the greater its strength. , Any creature on a druid's shoulder is his family, any land under his feet his home. , The druid's lifestaff connects her to generations of bygone Sylvok. , All the zeal of the Sylvok with only a trace of their conservancy. , Although the elves of Argoth always considered them a nuisance, the pixies made fine allies during the war against the machines. , The insects found a meal in the carrion of the beast's prey. The beast found a spiffy new hairstyle. , "You know your orders. I know your hearts. Now the stronghold will know defeat."
—Eladamri , The elves arriving in Wirewood had no homes, let alone weapons, but they knew that the forest would always provide. , The insects keep the wurm's hide free from parasites. In return, the wurm doesn't eat the insects. , ". . . inviting the soul to wander for a spell in abysses of solitude . . . ."
—Kate Chopin, The Awakening , "Everyone break into teams. Weaponry, you're with me. Nature group, meet by the palm tree. Stoneworks and metalworks, follow the anvil. Everyone else, gather around the giant V."
—Sword of Kaldra , "Species XR17 feeds upon the mental energies of its victims. This explains why the goblins remain unaffected."
—Riptide Project researcher , "Ready? One... two..." , Khenra are almost always born as twins. Their instinctual connection lends itself well to their preferred fighting style. , "With a twitch of its muscles, its timeline forks. Then, just as quickly, its two selves reintegrate. Causality, strangely, seems not to mind."
—Rukarumel, field journal , The fire spell stuttered and broke. Its pieces reached Teferi out of rhythm, meaningless. , Even the darkest corners of Ravnica still lie in the shadow of the Church. , "Many wings haunt the skies these days. Few of them bear good tidings."
—Lavinia , "The price isn't negotiable, but I'm sure you'll agree it's fair." , "Entrance is free. Donations are required."
—Notice outside Vizkopa Bank , Memnarch shared a touch of his power with the vedalken in return for their service. It is a debt he intends to collect. , "We order them to stand, they stand. We order them to wait, they wait. We order them to die, they die."
—Pontifex, elder researcher , To Jin-Gitaxias, perfection is not a goal, but a process. , Necromancers deal in commodities far more precious than gold and grain. , Leeches never tire of feeding. , When tempers run high, it's easy to lose your head. , When the hive must feed, every appendage becomes an additional mouth. , As Phage drank their energy, a vague memory of Jeska stirred. Then she lost herself again in the joy of her victims' suffering. , "The realm must never yield to the chaos of the wilds." , "Duty and honor are reasons enough, but beating you will also be a pleasure." , "Words are pointless. It's what you do with your hammer that counts." , Squires throughout the realm aspire to her mix of panache and martial prowess. , Originally considered the work of Urza, this tablet was created by forgers seeking to imitate Urza's masterpieces. , It is rumored the Azorius paid an exorbitant sum to ensure its symbol would appear at the top. , Initiates live and train with their crop, the unit that begins the trials together. , "Taste my horns!"
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight* , "The Jeskai would have me bow in restraint. So I have found a people unafraid of true power." , "Kneel before a dragon and you will be spared when it turns to leave."
—Yikaro, Atarka warrior , Pockets of Æther can be so foul they melt flesh from bone. , "C'mon, choose 'monkey.' Everybody loves monkeys!" , "Drink this, brother. It will bring you rest."
—Liliana Vess , Sigils corrupted by outsiders do not lose their power, only their purity. , "Welcome to perfection."
—Sheoldred, Whispering One , "No, *you* get the water. I ain't thirsty."
—Squee , "I run the maze alone, but I fight with the full might of the Legion." , "My mount needs neither reins nor bridle. We both share a common purpose." , Ora Ondar, the Khalni Garden, is a lush tangle of growth in the harsh lands of Akoum. Its plant growth is marvelously diverse: a brilliant spectrum of vibrant life . . . and speedy death. , "My people blazed these pathways long ago, before the Eldrazi came. We will ride them long after the Eldrazi are gone." , "No more blood shall be spilled to satisfy another's deluded lust for power." , Elves of the Tajuru Nation spend their lives in the ancient jaddi trees' expansive canopy, some living and dying without ever touching the ground. , "In its time of hardship, all of Zendikar cries out in pain. Are you listening?" , Her rallying cry reaches far beyond the Tajuru elves, inspiring all those who hear it. , The drake flew true. The arrow flew truer. , In the quiet before a battle, Boros soldiers whisper prayers that steady their nerves and focus their minds. , "You can tell me what I want to know, or you can talk to the Chief of Compliance. Why don't you make it easy on yourself?" , A place for everything, and everything in its place. , At night he perfected his aim, shooting spiderwebs by starlight. , "I prefer to weave my magic through oni blood, but yours will do in a pinch." , "Many scales make the skin of a dragon."
—Abzan wisdom , "Your death will be a balm, your passing a welcome revision, and all will sigh with peace to know of your demise." , "Your thoughts betray you."
—Illulia of Nighthearth , The safewright Talara protects a delicate woodland waterfall. She has vowed to send wave after wave of warriors to slay any who would dare disturb its beauty. , "Their ships pollute our air as they themselves pollute our forest."
—Arathel, elvish queen , The trader let loose a laugh that made all around him check their purses. , From time, knowledge. From knowledge, power. , "Scouting a battle before you fight it is just good business."
—Jefan, Talas ship captain , The sea is in their blood. Literally. , "When you are gone, will anyone remember your story?"
—Unknown , "The sun banishes darkness every morning. I too will rise with such assuredness."
—Huatli , "Good ideas don't take time. They take a lot of bad ideas first."
—Ral Zarek , "The pain of exploring is less than the pain of not knowing."
—Tamiyo , "You'll never get to the top if you don't know who's already there."
—Kaya , "The continual rise of the downtrodden is as inevitable as vines usurping a forest."
—Vraska , He realized a bit late that he was supposed to *plant* the magic beans. , Isolated on its little candlewick, the kami never heard of the crime that drove its comrades to war. , Change is a denizen of Shadowmoor as much as ouphes and noggles are. , "Keep them at sword's length!" Gerrard's order fell flat as each sliver's talon suddenly grew longer. "Hold on—break out the polearms!" , "The volcanic winds make a maze of the skies of Jund. If we mean to invade, we must first learn their invisible paths." , After Talrand conquered the depths of Shandalar, his ambitions drove him skyward, joined by servants whose drive and curiosity equaled his own. , "The seas are vast, but the skies are even more so. Why be content with one kingdom when I can rule them both?" , In the Talruum language, there is no word for "surprised." , Don't insult a Talruum unless your mount is swift.
—Suq'Ata saying , When the Talruum began to play, the dragons fell from the sky to squash the obnoxious noise. , "Why fill pockets with gold when you can fill hearts with conviction?" , When Freyalise spoke the World Spell, the tamanoa rose to bring a new morning to Terisiare. , Tamiyo wished only to observe the war, but she soon realized neutrality was not an option. , Entry 434: There's more to Avacyn's madness . . . , In times of infestation and war, Zendikar favors the blades that strike in unison. , Gaea battles rampant death with abundant life. , A plague on the curious. , "I have no fangs, yet I constantly bite. I have no scales, yet I slither through you. What am I?"
—Riddle of the viper's venom , The bloom contains no seeds. It's meant only to nourish the forest's inhabitants. , undefined , undefined , The longer it weaves through the twisted vines of the Tangle, the more it adopts their hidden strength. , "A true Phyrexian predator. It will never know death, just as nature intended."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , The fiercest hunters in the Tangle don't seek out the mantises. They *are* the mantises. , As if there's glitch in the system, the Tangle sometimes folds in on itself, throwing off sparks of mana in a mystifying display. , "The blood of the forest is beholden to no one."
—Nissa Revane , Only rumors have ever escaped its web. , In bringing life to Mirrodin, Memnarch was more successful than he knew—for Mirrodin began to take on a life of its own. , "Taniwha rolls in its sleep, and the land is awash with the waves."
—Poetics of Hanan , Taoists chose to be hermits for many reasons, but all shared one unchanging goal: to follow the Tao. , By appearing in places miles apart at the same time, Zuo Ci exhibited the mystic's ability to "shrink the land." , "Abzan, Jeskai, Sultai, Mardu, Temur—names lost to history, yet worthy of further study."
—Narset , "I like to think Kytheon keeps watch over all of us." , "After Auntie brushed the soot from her eyes, she discovered something wonderful: the fire had turned the goat into something that smelled delicious."
—A tale of Auntie Grub , "Not again!" , "After death you face paradise, damnation, or Tariel."
—Priest's teaching , What doesn't grow, dies. And what dies grows the tarmogoyf. , Despising his siblings as insults to his line, he finds and devours each in turn. , "A good tarpan will serve you, faithful and true. A bad one will kick you in the head."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , "Auntie Grub had caught a goat, a bleating doe that still squirmed in her arms. At the same time, her warren decided to share with her a sensory greeting of hot tar . . . ."
—A tale of Auntie Grub , "The cyclops shrugged off savage blows, but casual insults made him weep."
—Azeworai, "The Cyclops who Couldn't" , The amorphous, magically animated residue known as the Fathom Sludge lurks in the Hagra Cistern, attacking its prey with pseudopods and dragging it down to be digested. , The cruelest tortures leave no mark upon the flesh. , They are the reflection of Rushwood's glow on the edge of a wooden sword. , There is no dress code for the Inventors' Fair, but you'll be hard-pressed to find anyone or anything not done up in their finest. , The taste of blood breaks down what little self-control the Rakdos possess. , "How blessed are some people, whose lives have no fears, no dreads, to whom sleep is a blessing that comes nightly, and brings nothing but sweet dreams."
—Bram Stoker, *Dracula* , "Hone the knife and mourn the least. Three chimes to sound the sweet, grim feast."
—Barrow witch incantation , "Any who drink of Freyalise's bounty drink the mead of rebirth."
—Kaysa, Elder Druid of the Juniper Order , "Drakes embody the worst of Ravnica: great potential, twisted by selfishness and greed."
—Razia , When the Nebelgast recedes, there are often stragglers. , The dead who wander beyond the safety of the city of Naktamun crave only to spread their curse. , "I rigged it together from wicker and scrap, yet somehow I find it unalterably perfect."
—Braenna, cobblesmith , It shows up at one meal wearing the carcass of the last. , The Tattermunge gang has no words for the spell that whips their instinctual rage into a frenzy. They only know they like it. , "Yavimaya is one being—one vastness of rippling leaves, one deepness of roots, and one chatter of animals—of which I am one part." , "Eyes on me!" , Incensed by their opponents' unrelenting taunts, even wise generals were known to rashly lead their troops into battle—often to disastrous defeats. , The safety of the village depends on the beast thinking with its stomach. , The power of a waterfall. The fury of an avalanche. The intellect of a gale-force wind. , Rakdos cultists are her best customers. They never flinch at pain and are seldom good at math. , When Urza's war machines became too costly, Tawnos's weaponry replaced them. , "My master believes anything is achievable." , "It's good to see the eagles circling the lighthouse again."
—Tazri , "The Roil can be directed. Observe." , "First attempt: unsuccessful. Instead of an amphibious chicken, hybridization produced an aquaphobic fish." , Due to some late-night partying, the chicken missed the group photo. , "Do not fall into the trap of thinking you understand the kami. Cannot a drop of water be dew on the meadow, a glacier's thaw, or the tear of a child?"
—Sensei Hisoka , When Kozilek destroyed Sea Gate, distant Valakut could not contain its grief. , Only the foolish and the rich build their houses where the land is thin and the ocean is near. , "We move because the earth does."
—Bruse Tarl, Goma Fada nomad , The barbarians of Pardia are long dead, but its mountains still smolder with rage. , Hellions measure their meals in mountains. , "Think of the problems we'll face if you uproot entire continents," said Urza. "I have," replied Teferi, "but the alternative is worse." , Alone in the charred desolation of her kingdom, she regretted many things—most of all not acting sooner. , "You will kneel before me, even if I have to split the earth under your feet!"
—Ash Kronor, Keldon warlord , Goblins from the Makindi Trenches of Ondu make surprisingly skilled climbing guides due to their habit of scaling the cliffs to drop onto unsuspecting foes. , To save this plane, he must forsake all others. , "Fine, you know more than me. But do you have to be such a show-off about it?"
—Chandra Nalaar, to Teferi , "If I do nothing else, I will protect my people."
—Teferi , "Stepping through time is like riding a camel. It may get you where you want to go, but the ride is rarely pleasant."
—Teferi , "We threw dried fruit to the drakes that rode the air, streaming along the *Weatherlight'*s side as we sailed amidst the clouds."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight* , "They may seem ceremonial, but their swords are still sharp."
—Kipkemboi, Kukemssa pirate , Made you look. , The three wizards knew only that this isle held a great mystery—and that patience alone would solve it. , "Isolation is not the answer."
—Urza, to Teferi , "I've walked a hundred worlds, but you are my universe." , Teferi's legacy lives on in Tolaria through the study of time magic and a tradition of irrepressible mischief. , "Fire is dead. Water has killed him."
—From *The Stories of Nature* , "Long ago, I enchanted an army of statues to guard Zhalfir. My homeland is gone, but its protectors remain."
—Teferi , "The safest place for you is not now." , "Tarassel's sixth law of temporal recursion is easy to understand as long as you know the first seven." , "I don't like to speak ill of 'walkers . . . but just what did Teferi think he was doing?"
—Ertai, wizard adept , "Nature's been fired. The oceans are under new management."
—Ambassador Laquatus , "Slivers are guided only by simple instinct. Advance the hive, and you will be welcomed. Impede the hive, and you will face unrelenting opposition."
—Freyalise , Most spies sneak into enemy camps. These spies sneak into enemy minds. , "The most disappointing thing about learning telepathy is finding out how boring people really are."
—Teferi, fourth-level student , After losing several of the devices to midair collisions, Greven forbade moggs from operating telethopters. , "The curious merely amass knowledge. The ambitious use it."
—Telim'Tor , "People laughed at my darts—once."
—Telim'Tor , "Execution awaits the dissenter."
—Kasib ibn Naji, *Letters* , They are extensions of the Tangle, stretching its vines into the furthest reaches of the sky. , "It is my honor to keep safe Tel-Jilad's secrets, not to know them." , The Viridian elves had purged their culture of the trolls' traitorous influence. In times of strife, however, the ancestral memories returned. , For his crimes, he was made to forget all the trolls' secrets. Now he knows only that he is outcast, but not why. , "No longer am I shackled to antiquity. My new masters will etch a glorious future." , "The Tangle loans you life. Spend it well." , "When the levelers come again, we shall be ready for them." , Etched on Tel-Jilad's trunk is an entire history of Mirrodin—except for an expanse near the ground scrubbed smooth by an unknown hand. , Thanks to the wolves, Tel-Jilad is the one area of Mirrodin the myr don't see often. , Words never uttered by mortals flowed incessantly from its many mouths. , Mastery is achieved when "telling time" becomes "telling time what to do." , "I don't need a plan, just a goal. The rest will follow on its own."
—Gerrard , The question isn't whether slivers will adapt to a world's perils but whether the world's perils will adapt to slivers. , "Death shall prevail as long as our will falls to rust. May necessity anneal our resolve."
—Ghalma the Shaper , "I've been carrying a sword since before you were born. I wouldn't give up my oath for all the peace and comfort in the world." , "I *am* the storm." , The first to arrive on Dominaria from their distant home, the marids are the oldest tribe of djinn and the most respected by storm and sea. , "Its speed will be equaled only by the swiftness of my enemy's fall."
—Kaervek , "Let everything return to its true nature, so that destiny may take its course." , Young, yes. Inexperienced, yes. Weak? Don't count on it. , "Kinjalli sculpted humans from clay, but the dinosaurs were carved from unyielding stone."
—Itzama the Crested , Enlightenment is not gained by striking the bell or hearing its toll. It's found in the silence that follows. , "Give us breath. Give us life. Prepare us for the day we make."
—The Alaborn "Rite of Battle" , "Where the roots reach, there the temple rises."
—Niszka, Selesnya evangel , "When gods become apathetic, the people will worship anyone who answers their pleas."
—Kiora , "I don't know if the gods watch over their temples, but I figure it's best to be stealthy just in case." , "Not the graveyard shift again!" , "If yesterday was two days ago tomorrow, will the day after tomorrow be today or yesterday?"
—Temporal Manipulation 101 final exam, Tolarian Academy , As the temporal fractures spread and time itself slowly fell apart, visitors started to appear from across the past and future, and those native to the present began to disappear. , "The scythe of time or my blade at your throat—the choice is yours."
—Holux, stronghold racketeer , The Cabal soldier blinked and found day had become night, he had a face full of thistle seeds, and the old man was nowhere to be seen. , Doing something at the last minute isn't so bad when you can make that minute last. , Time is a marvelous plaything. , One splash of the spring's water knocks you clear into last week. , Few truly live in the moment. , "Murder clad in crimson beauty,
An end to life and love and duty."
—Barrow witch incantation , Savagery to survive, courage to triumph. , The Temur see themselves as a pack, their bonds more primal than the Abzan's. , Raising the bones of Hekjek the Mad proved far easier than getting them to lie back down. , The crocodiles of the Broken Lands, long used to feeding on undead flesh, eagerly flooded into Naktamun for a taste of something fresher. , Thalia established the Order of Saint Traft in an effort to bring together cathars who would stand against the corruption of the Lunarch Council. , Darkness doesn't always send its minions to do its dirty work. , "Because I am incapable of tears does not mean I have no need to shed them."
—Karn, silver golem , Nothing was going to stop it—not the narrow alleys, not the Boros garrison, and certainly not the four-story Orzhov cathedral. , Lukka was ordered to kill a threat. He chose to make a friend. , "The Tenth has always been my home. This city is constantly embroiled in one crisis or another, but I'm determined to protect my piece." , "The Tenth is under heavy attack, but it's being handled. I sent Mileva."
—Tajic , "I keep reminding myself we do this because others can't, because we love this city. If we don't save it, no one will." , "The sun kami is terrible to behold. When its temper flares, best seek shade and pray for forgiveness."
—Sensei Golden-Tail , "The jeweler, the potter, the smith . . . They all imbue a bit of their souls into their creations. The kami destroy that crafted mortal shell and absorb the soul within."
—Noboru, master kitemaker , It was as though the sky opened its eyes and found what it saw displeasing. , "When we're aloft, I love to lean over the *Weatherlight*'s railing and watch the patterns the griffins' shadows make on the clouds below."
—Sisay, Captain of the *Weatherlight* , All suns must set. , The light of reason follows them even into battle. , "If this world could make a wish, it would be to survive the parasites who loot its treasures and threaten its life force."
—Saidah, Joraga hunter , "This feels a little more like home." , "You tread upon the land all the time, yet you seem dismayed when it moves to step on you."
—Nissa Revane , Take two steps north into the unsettled future, south into the unquiet past, east into the present day, or west into the great unknown. , It lives in the mountaintops, feeds at the mountains' feet, and kills anything it finds on the path between. , Sometimes violent earthquakes, hurtling boulders, and unseasonable dust storms are wrongly attributed to the Roil. , Elmut had slaughtered vampires, slain werewolves, and destroyed hordes of zombies. Sadly, he never got over his fear of spiders. , A living remnant of the Ice Age. , It knows nothing of Eldrazi or Planeswalkers, just that there are new intruders in its territory. , "The presence of the strong will make you stronger."
—Yeva, Nature's Herald , Bit by bit, Mercadia City had forced the Cho-Arrim from their ancestral lands. They would be pushed no further. , Inventors have been known to capture gremlins with the intent to release them in a rival's workshop. More often than not, that plan backfires. , From the eyes up, it's solid bone and stubbornness. , "Such lesser creatures must be purged from the sky. What use do they have but to help channel the lightning of our mighty dragonlord?"
—Gvar Barzeel, Kolaghan warrior , Standing between a scythecat and its prey makes you the appetizer. , "A simple trap in a dark corner of the mind, and their nightmares catch up with them."
—Geth, keeper of the Vault , The forge of Purphoros burns in the heart of Mount Velus, attracting dragons with blistering heat. , "Consider this a high alert, people. Permission to destroy on sight. Either we take it down or it'll take down the Fair."
—Pav, gremlin watch , "We follow it through its tunnels, and where it dies, we farm."
—Mihas, spore druid , "The Ancestor saved us for a purpose." , "Belief in the Ancestor is admirable, but our enemies often demand something more . . . tangible."
—Pianna, nomad captain , "If we have learned nothing else, we have learned to survive."
—Mystic elder , Those who survive the test bear a mark of power anyone can recognize. , Poorly trained griffins sometimes attack the noble audiences that gather to watch their progress. , It bites the hand that leads it. , "Death is tyranny. Like all tyranny, it must be opposed." , "My ancestor Toshiro used to say, 'Life is a series of choices between bad and worse.' I'm a master of making great bad choices." , Teyo gifted shields to as many allies as possible, knowing he could not always be there to protect them himself. , While Kaya is guildmaster, Teysa waits patiently at the center of the Orzhov web of power. , "Spend your life betraying me if you wish. I'll simply take it up with your ghost." , "To achieve what none have achieved before, one must dare what none have dared before." , "You can't hope to comprehend the plans that are in motion."
—Tezzeret , Tezzeret's command of living metal has nothing to do with intricate gearcraft or aether supplies. , "More obedient than any dog."
—Tezzeret , They drift in and out of shadow and ever on toward madness. , "They are 'between' in every way."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary , "You see our world when you shut your eyes so tightly that tiny shapes float before them."
—Lyna, to Ertai , "Ill luck and poor geography caught the Thalakos between us and the Dauthi."
—Lyna, Soltari emissary , "Thraben is our home and I will not see it fall to this unhallowed horde." , "Salvation will not be granted by the Lunarch Council. It must be earned—at the edge of a sword, if necessary." , "Let the points of our lances lead the way." , She hears every voice from the swirling, whispering mist and swears to tell their stories. , Thelon of Havenwood created thallids as a food source in times of darkness. Thallids did the same with saprolings. , Some of the thallids that escaped into the fens of Urborg began emulating the Cabal's bloodsoaked rituals in their own peculiar way. , She spins a web few can resist. Its sweet aroma sparks chaos in every heart. , "Was this gift cast adrift for any to find, or did Thassa guide the currents to bring it to me alone?"
—Kenessos, priest of Thassa , When mortals claim there are places Thassa cannot reach, the sea god laughs. , "I bring a flood that nothing can withstand." , The sailor had never seen a god before. Now she had gazed upon Thassa. Shortly she would see Athreos, and then she would meet Erebos. , To resist Thassa is to deny the rising tide. , The dark times left the peasantry ready to fight with whatever weapons were at hand. , "This god held prisoner in human hands has put all humanity in the hands of angry gods."
—Masako the Humorless , undefined , Meletian mages can't claim the title of thaumaturge until they have received a gift or omen from the gods. Ephara likes to give tangible tokens of her favor. , "An immense river of oblivion is sweeping us away into a nameless abyss."
—Ernest Renan, Souvenirs d'Enfance et de Jeunesse , After years of being bullied, Fergo reaped the benefits of his newfound strength: he never met a man he didn't want to fight. , The meat, on the other hand, has frequent visitors. , The path to power is often paved with atrocities. , Magic often masters those who cannot master it. , Energy is never lost, only transformed. , It drains vitality from those it touches. , "Their buzzing makes my bones hum from a mile away."
—Galenti, treasure hunter , Her given name has been lost in the mists of time. Legend says that her silent vigil will one day be ended by the one who, pure of heart and spirit, calls out that name again. , "The magic at the heart of all living things can bear awe-inspiring fruit."
—Kolevi of Havenwood, elder druid , "As the climate worsened, some Thelonites turned to fertilizing with fresh blood in an attempt to keep Havenwood alive and growing."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III* , "The sight of my thallids still thriving is a bittersweet welcome to this cold waste." , As it twists, so does all life around it. , It is everything and nothing. , Invented in Mishra's earlier days, the rack was once his most feared creation. , "The Mercadians are too busy looking down on us to see us coming."
—Cho-Arrim rebel , It takes off with a roar of superheated wind, startling wild pterons as they survey the ground below. , "Madness can't touch a mind ignited by genius." , "Finally we understand the lesson of our home: loss begets renewal."
—Kolbjörn, elder druid of the Juniper Order , Slicking the ice with its heated underside, the thermopod skates at great speed to overtake its prey. , Amid rumors of war, the third act of *The Absolution of the Guildpact* was quickly rewritten as a tragedy. , The number printed on the card is no longer in service. For help, go to wizards.custhelp.com or find us on Twitter @Wizards_Help. , The rumors are horrifying; the truth is worse. , Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength.
—Persian proverb , Moss-covered statues littered the area, a macabre monument to the basilisk's power. , "Tread too hard in the forest and it will tread on you in return."
—Vivien Reid , The shaman of the tribe is responsible for keeping track of all its treasures, including angry pets and cursed lamps of fiery doom. , Her hunger will not be denied. , Other birds collect twigs for their nests. Magpies collect jewels for theirs. , "You're telling me we spent a year securing the sanctuary against pterosaurs, rambeasts, and nightfangs . . . and we were robbed by what?"
—Endris, Drannith magistrate , Seafarers fear sailing off the world's edge not so much as down its gullet. , undefined , Cephalids seek knowledge not to better themselves, but to best others. , "Either I know just the spell I need, or I'm about to." , The first of the Thousand Deaths. , Lymph, the fluid essence of blinkmoths, is prized by wizards for the rush of intellect it provides. , A sip of recollection, an ocean of regrets. , Sometimes the weapon wields the bearer. , "A whole life, full of memories and experience, love and sorrow, drained drop by drop into this bottle. Could any feast be more glorious?" , "Your life is a blinding light, your breath a gale, your pulse a deafening drum. Be still. Be still."
—Dahlya Trul, "Irbitov Lament" , The thoughtweft is his informant, and he its devoted guardian. , The Consulate's eyes—unblinking, unsleeping—are everywhere. , "Etherium is limited. Innovation is not."
—Tezzeret , Every bough, branch, bramble lashed out in defense of the forest. , "I will not rest until the stench of eyeblights is eradicated from these woods." , Every inch of a sliver's body is a potential claw, appendage, or projectile. , Those who fled the destruction of the city stumbled into the territory of their prickly neighbors. , The first law of Yavimaya is that guests may kill only to survive. As fires aren't needed in the warm weather, cutting trees for wood means death. , "Halana grew brambles to create a barricade around our camp, hoping that it would keep the wolves out. That was a mistake for which we almost paid dearly."
—Alena, trapper of Kessig , It will come to the defense of all wild things, from the shivering wren to the towering giant. , Mined from a cave in the Dark Meanders, it shines brightest when no one is looking. , If bribery and intimidation fail, Marchesa turns to her favorite form of bureaucracy. , Blessed with many options, Thornscape masters favor scarabs as familiars. , "The danger in cultivating massive plants caught the elves by surprise."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III* , The crone's boughs creaked as she spoke. "You look peaked, little one. Come, sip from my warm brew. It'll have you blooming in no time." , Their arrows are tipped with basilisk eyes and fletched with cockatrice feathers. , Guarding the ship is the Thornwinds' first concern. Getting along with the locals ranks fourth or fifth at best. , "The dead perform all the work here—farming, building, teaching, even embalming their fellow mummies. The living need do nothing but train. What system could be more perfect?"
—Temmet, vizier of Naktamun , "As the rest of the mortal world waged war, Lady Azami and her students invaded tomes of knowledge. Their search yielded spells critical in the fight."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , Efforts to use them as spies failed when they kept reporting to the enemy. , Vedalken eyes don't see the beauty in things. They see only what those things can teach. , "I can think of no greater punishment than answering your question in full."
—Lazav , "There's an assortment to satisfy all your needs: deep, fleeting, dirty, pure, scientific, philosophical, after, and even fore. For a price." , Agents of the Architects of Will mark their victims as a reminder that their secrets are secret no longer. , Thinking is hard. , "The skull is rigid, but the mind is so deliciously supple."
—Eromena the Mind Render , The first memory it sucks out of its host is how to get rid of it. , "It's truly the highest honor, isn't it? To be remembered? Pity for you." , "If this is thinking, I don't know what I was doing before." , "I never thought I'd miss the gomazoa."
—Trinda, Hada spy patrol , "Their thoughts flow through my mind, and I am healed."
—Fyndhorn elder , Balshan wizards have long used them to gnaw away the memories they wish to forget. , "Once the brew gets the brains nice and pickled, they're a lot easier to pick through." , Only when two oracles speak in unison is an omen accepted as truth. , Some predators can sense fear in their prey, but the lamia is drawn to madness. , "As you inject the *viscus vitae* into the brain stem, don't let the spastic moaning bother you. It will soon become music to your ears."
—Stitcher Geralf , "Any dream is a robust harvest. Still, I prefer the timeworn dreams, heavy with import, that haunt the obsessive mind." , "In our war with the kami, we annihilate what is our own. Do they too suffer ruination in their hidden world?"
—Diary of Azusa , Infinite possibilities contained in a finite space. , The kithkin mind-bond is even tighter in Shadowmoor, reinforcing the unity of their community to the point of xenophobia. , Paradoxically, to tilt the massive jug for a sip, you'd need the energy of the giant's tonic. , Ral's storm crackled with mystical detections: Planeswalkers were infiltrating Ravnica. , "Swarms of the unhallowed claw at Thraben's gates! Do you still deny the end approaches?" , The famed hunting hounds of House Cecani continue to prove the quality of their pedigree. , undefined , "Let them decry me for burning the dead. I'm not giving those ghoulcallers any more fuel for their madness." , "If you've been at this as long as I have, nothing can surprise you. That's the hope, at least." , "I've learned to trust my dogs' instincts. When they're calm, I'm calm. And when they get nervous, I get my crossbow."
—Hinrik of House Cecani , undefined , The uncorrupted rallied under Thalia's leadership and Sigarda's banner. , "Once more into Devil's Breach, soldiers. I want another devil tail for my collection." , "Always carry two spears."
—Mokgar, Kalonian hunter , Urza's metathran children were conceived, birthed, and nurtured by an integrated system of machines. , "This will work," Gerrard called to the elves as he used the forge to strengthen the aboroth, "but if it doesn't, we won't survive to care." , "What we do not use up, we use again."
—Urza , The golems of the ancient Thran still draw power in ways that baffle the artificers of today. , "Every device in the rig is evidence of Thran enlightenment. All mana was the same to them, whether from rock or water, growth or decay. Can you imagine such unity of vision?"
—Urza, journal , The portal opens not to the past, but from it. Those who step through discover an unimaginable future. , Every line holds a tale, and between lie a thousand more. , When Urza asked the viashino what it did, they answered: "It hums." , Some competitors fight for glory or money. Some just like hitting people. , It cares more about preserving the herd's territory than about preserving itself. , It just obeys you. It doesn't *like* you. , Young wumpuses are malevolent and vicious—but they grow out of it. , They glide through the undergrowth, drawn to sounds of disturbance. They attack in unison and all share in the kill. And then they move on. , Beneath crashing waves lies an ocean of secrets waiting to be explored. , His name means "he who paints the earth red." , "Over time, Konda grew ever more suspicious, fearing even his most loyal allies were being manipulated by unseen hands."
—*The History of Kamigawa* , Goblins' motivational techniques are crude, but effective. , "Choose one to heal, one to harm, and one to grant you the prudence to use them."
—Miotri, auratouched mage , It's true that two heads are better than one, but after that you run into diminishing returns. , "As the kami passed over the village of Mita, the inhabitants relived their three most grievous tragedies. Some cried. Some raged. Some were driven to madness. But the next morning, none possessed the will to fight."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , "Trying to meet a worthy man in the wrong way is as bad as closing the door on an invited guest."
—Mencius, a Chinese philosopher , It destroys everything in its path, including the path itself. , The sound of its plated tail beating on desert rocks is often mistaken for the footfalls of a much larger predator. , "Welcome to the winning team." , As the bounty on Massacre Girl rose, so did the number of imitators. , "Right now, in these first moments of creation, it is simultaneously nothing and everything." , "When you live for others, you live for yourself." , The most successful of Simic creations is cytoplasm, a living, symbiotic substance that feeds off genetic rhythms and strengthens its host in return. , As eons passed, the rock wore away, revealing the rich colors at the mountain's heart. , Far from human eyes, birds flit between vivid blossoms in a hidden paradise. , Some passengers ride without tickets. , Wildflowers here bloom not with the season but with the ebb and flow of magic. , Textiles at the Inventors' Fair feature threads from every corner of Kaladesh. , All the wonders of the natural world in one breathtaking microcosm. , Beauty appears in strange places for those with eyes to see it. , In Ghirapur, even the lowliest residents live in lavish surroundings. , As unpredictable as aether, and just as hard to contain. , Aether shapes everything on Kaladesh, from the sky to the sea. , "I just felt a drip. It must be about to rain."
—Stoneway Market vendor, last words , Tainted by a thousand fears. , "With this throne, unite your nation."
—Throne inscription , At the heart of Ish Sah, Geth stokes the dark fires of Phyrexia. , "When the Second Sun rests between the horns on the horizon, so begins the Hour of Revelation. Then the Hour of Glory, the Hour of Promise, and finally the Hour of Eternity."
—*The Accounting of Hours* , A shining symbol of Paliano's true ruler—ambition. , "Rulers come and go, but my allegiance belongs to the throne." , "Victim discovered at dawn with mouth agape and eyes bulging. No evidence of blood loss or dismemberment. Severe bruising around the neck."
—Vallon, Thraben inspector , "Those idiots should never have bred thrulls for combat!"
—Jherana Rure , The hunger of a vampire and the subtlety of a tax collector. , "Until the Rebellion, thrulls served their masters faithfully—even at the cost of their own lives."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II* , "Just take a little off the top." , "In crafting intelligent Thrulls to assist in sacrifices, Sahr inadvertantly set the stage for the Thrull Rebellion."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. II* , His crime was silence, and now he suffers it eternally. , Even in their mountain fortresses, the Akroans have learned not to anger Thassa. , "Give 'em a push."
—Mogwin, goblin delinquent , "We will start small, I think."
—Volrath , "My next aerial design will use less metal."
—Hadaken, alchemist of Nephalia , Attracting a dragon's attention may be the last mistake you make. , Thunder doesn't always mean rain. Sometimes it means ruin. , Some days it's better to stay inside. , He cares not for the disasters his storm brings as long as his path ahead is clear. , Sometimes primitive cultures attributed natural phenomena to monsters. Sometimes they were right. , The arrival of the Planar Bridge caused eddies in the aether, creating some entirely new species while transforming others. , If you hear it, it's too late. , The clouds grew thick, and then they grew teeth. , The herds follow as new growth arises. , "I thought this was a civilized place. How are there so many feral beasts?"
—Dovin Baan , In times of conflict, the philosophers of Meletis trade their podiums for conveyances of war. , It strikes like a bolt from a brainstorm. , The giant was felt a few seconds before he was seen. , "Fire is to imprecise for my tastes. I'd rather rely on a single, well-placed bolt of lightning."
—Lyrus, Sea Gate wizard , "Stay away from my friends!" , "It appears that nature has risen against us."
—Captain Brinely Rage , "We do not need beakers and vials to test our predators."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , Its hooves strike lightning and the thunder follows quickly after. , While humans hear only a deafening roar, the fae hear music of breathtaking beauty. , Thunderscape masters release familiars to help guide their apprentices down the thunderscape path. , "Hear that? Those notes mean we've arrived at Sunhome! Let our allies' hearts soar and our enemies' hearts shatter at the sound!"
—Klattic, Boros legionnaire , "It was full of fire and smoke and light and . . . it drove between us and the Efrafans like a thousand thunderstorms with lightning."
—Richard Adams, *Watership Down* , Jort the Thunder-Mad spent his life perfecting a way to harness the power of the heavens. , Lightning reflexes, thunderous might. , Viashino thrashes are led by elders who have survived countless challenges. , "The lemures had barely taken wing when the sky roared with thunder. The swarm of little beasts wavered, divided, and fell, crashing to the earth."
—General Jarkeld, the Arctic Fox , "Your prey is in my custody now. Withdraw."
—Vivien Reid , "Nothing is too broken to mend." , "Find out whose that is. I like its energy."
—Judith , Tracing the horizon in a dance of wind and fire. , It lurks in the spaces between moments. , The dry riverbed became a raging torrent, and the Cho-Arrim claimed their prize. , "Do not speak the name of the sea, for if it should hear you and rise up, no fortress in the world could hide you."
—Gimara of Halimar , To merfolk, pirates are a nuisance. To pirates, merfolk are a threat. To the kraken, they're both appetizers. , "It is nature that gives us our boundaries and nature that enforces them."
—Eladamri, Lord of Leaves , Beneath the waves, things appear the way merfolk want them to. , The tide of battle favors those who can swim. , "The floor of the sea is paved with the shattered remnants of vessels that navigated its surface unwelcomed."
—Thassa, god of the sea , It didn't do much, but the residents of Sea Gate gave it a wide berth all the same. , Ebb and flow, high tide and low, quick as sand and just as slow. , The scullers beneath Esper keep strixes as trained pets, and set them loose when a fare refuses to pay. , He paints with drop and shimmer a world that exists only in the wistful heart. , Fishing boats often follow hunting drakes to find the largest schools of fish. , The stadium tests more than just fighting skill. For example, swimming ability. , "Though the letter was many pages long, I could tell all I needed to know from one look at the messenger's face."
—Barrin, master wizard , Aetherborn patrons use any means necessary to secure victory for their protégés. , Cho-Arrim martial artists emulate the beasts of their home. , "An elvish adventurer unearthed this stone in Jolrael's jungle. Now it's truly fit for display in one of her palaces."
—Isel, master carver , Having gone to the trouble of stealing a bident from a god on another world, Kiora was eager to test its capabilities. , He digs his roots into barren ground, searching for old seeds that never had the chance to sprout. , The people of the Sun Empire worship the sun in three aspects. Tilonalli is the Burning Sun, associated with ferocity, fire, and passion. , "I am the ferocity of the Burning Sun. I am hide and feather, fang and claw." , Tazeem's embrace is harsh, but for those that call it home, nothing else will do. , "Can you build a fire? Track a deer? Identify killer trees? Then you'll never survive Kessig without me." , Only nature wreaks such lovely havoc. , "You can't trust your eyes. A tree might look healthy, but its insides tell a different tale."
—Zahr Gada, Halimar expedition leader , "The need for the pack is bred in their bones. Their true strength will not show itself for any other purpose."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , In his presence, an ordinary grove becomes a bastion to turn spells and break armies. , Even through the Mirari's voice, the elves still hear the call of their kinship. , Though many think of Wolves as solitary predators, they are actually extremely social animals. During a hunt they often call to each other, which can be quite unsettling for their prey. , "Time may heal all wounds, but what heals time?"
—Teferi , Oddly, an unstable time stream makes wizards want to tinker with it even more. , "Gone today, here tomorrow."
—Ertai, wizard adept , The gods are not always kind, but they do have a soft spot for plucky underdogs. , No one spoke. There was no need. The threat of the Eldrazi presented a simple choice: lay down your weapons and die for nothing, or hold them fast and die for something. , "When the kumo attacked the monks' sacred shrine, a mournful toll for help echoed through the forest. Thus began the Battle of Silk, which would last six years."
—*Great Battles of Kamigawa* , Anyone other than a goblin would've gotten only a hand caught in the cookie jar. , "Any oaf can conquer a kingdom. It takes true power to conquer time."
—Shai Fusan, archmage , "I pray that I am never considered useless or old."
—Sharuum the Hegemon , There's lots of time like the present. , "Occasionally, there are those who refuse to appreciate all that the God-Pharaoh provides for us."
—Temmet, vizier of Naktamun , "Let's do it again!"
—Squee, goblin cabin hand , "To comprehend the full answer requires years of temporal study. In short, they were now never born in the first place."
—Teferi , It flees from anything that isn't shaped like a cloud. , "Just wait till I get my Gigantosaurus...." , A new bird of prey—one that hunts sentience. , "I wonder how it feels to be bored."
—Jhoira, artificer , "That giant didn't even see me, let alone catch me! And I was close enough to smell him! Of course, that's not saying much." , "Rauck-Chauv's like a holiday! Only it isn't on the calendars, and instead of dancing you knock people flat, and instead of giving gifts you break stuff." , "Sometimes I stroll along Tin Street and watch citizens busy with their daily lives. It reminds me why I do my job."
—Arrester Lavinia, Tenth Precinct , Big distractions mean tiny nuisances can slip by unnoticed. , If they succeed in their holy work, their order will vanish into welcome obscurity, for there will be no more souls to redeem. , "We've survived starvation, dwarf attacks, and heatstroke. Why should a little sandstorm bother us?" , "There is always another way." , "Monster or human, my rate's the same." , When the winds rock the trees, listen for voices in the creaking of the trunks. If you hear your name, you are one of the Goddess's chosen. , "What do a hero and an arrow have in common? In times of war are many more made."
—Elvish riddle , Whoever wins, the neighborhood loses. , With natural laws abandoned, excess thrives. , The massive dominate through might. The tiny survive with guile. Beware the tiny who become massive. , "Retribution is best delivered by claws and rage, with both magnified."
—Ajani , Centuries before the first blades of the Razor Fields chimed in the wind, Mirrodin echoed with the golems' footsteps. , There is no gift more precious or more perilous than fire. , Dust and memory are all that remain in Ulamog's wake. , "I've always said full war chests win wars, but I didn't mean by bashing enemy skulls with them."
—Teysa , His blade came down upon the neck of a goblin—but not the one he had charged. When Tivadar looked up, the world he had known was gone. , "The call came, spell-borne through mortar and stone to the ear of every soldier. The call came, and the advantage was ours."
—Lodusz, captain of the watch , Administrator of the military state of Sheoltun, Tobias is the military right arm of the empire and the figurehead of its freedom. , The glorious city of Pachatupa is the center of the Sun Empire, and Tocatli, the emperor's palace, is its glowing heart. , "The war sent Kamigawa into turmoil. Here it was spring and there winter. For some, time stood still, while for others, moments flashed past like minnows in a pond."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , The last survivor of her patrol, the warrior returned expecting disappointment and scorn. Instead she found gratitude. "You are alive. That is reason to celebrate." , "Fairest Isle, all isles excelling,/ Seat of pleasures, and of loves . . ."
—John Dryden , The academy worked with time—until time ran out. , Many have been lost just in staring at its wings. What's seen differs from account to account, but madness is always part of the story. , "Why should I boast? The bards will do it for me—and with music."
—Ertai, wizard adept , "It's contemplative, resourceful, and original. Everything else aside, it's the perfect student."
—Naban, dean of iteration , The Tolarian Academies embrace a tradition of study and research while discouraging the kinds of experiments that ruined the original island of Tolaria. , "It is not just our people I try to rescue. It is our culture, and our hope that we can return to greatness." , "When the fishtails' threats of magic didn't move me, they set their pet on us."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight* , Why not ask the winds?
—Tolarian expression meaning "Who knows?" , The fondest memories burn brightest. As they're lost forever, the flames grow hotter still. , "The voice calls me here, yet I see only bones. Is this more dragon trickery?"
—Sarkhan Vol , Sometimes knowledge takes on a life of its own. , "Reading it has given me a glimpse of what makes this deeply flawed city so very magnificent."
—Dovin Baan , "Humans are so forgetful. Every page I steal becomes a secret they can't remember." , "I hope none of those were important!" , "Some bend the law. I tie it into knots." , "The price is written at the bottom of the cup." , "If you wish to produce the finest work, you must start with the finest tools." , "Don't spend long examining signs of its passage. That you find them at all means it's still close at hand."
—Varra, Warden of the East Road , Ramos smiled, and there was day. , Monks from Topa wander all of Bant, encouraging the Unbeholden to find their place in society through honorable combat. , "My scars are my sigils. I will wear them with pride long after you're gone." , "Let all witness the fate of those who defy me."
—Crovax , Bolas cared little when his statue fell, thinking it a useful distraction, underestimating the surge of resolve it gave his opponents. , "Here on going is heck the what?" , A dwarf's grudge runs deeper than the mountains' roots. , "Light a torch and deliver this letter" were his instructions, which he unfortunately reversed. , "Drakes? Bah! Things that breathe don't interest me. It breathes *fire*, you say? Well, that's a different story!"
—Zataz, Izzet clockwork artificer , Devils redecorate every room with fire. , "Good morning, children. Please open your aether valves and ignite your gauntlets."
—Rakib, Ghirapur schoolteacher , Once thrown, twice burned. , "What do you do then? Run. Run very fast. Don't stop until you see the camp—or a bigger Giant."
—Toothlicker Harj, Orcish Captain , "Volrath has killed me. All that remains of me is the scar!"
—Tahngarth , Falling from heaven is not as painful as surviving the impact. , undefined , Those who raged most bitterly at the world in life are cursed to roam the nether realms in death. , "Not all nightmares can be escaped by waking."
—Ashiok , Kargan tribal lands rarely have issues with goblin raids. Coincidentally, they also rarely have issues keeping their dragons fed. , "Your God-Pharaoh has returned." , Like a carpet unrolling for their god, the scarabs poured out from the necropolis. , The Scorpion God's sting sends venom strong enough to poison blood, bone, and spirit. , "Tend the molten slag, or be the molten slag."
—Urabrask's enforcer , To a demon there is no such thing as restraint. , Dominaria's most extravagant crypt nevertheless holds an empty grave. , Market hucksters sell molochs for use as watchdogs. Of course, that's all molochs do. Sit around . . . and watch. , "Some folk these days are too restless to dream the dreams we need. We need to teach them to stop and catch their breath." , "Phyrexia is certainly dangerous, but I have to admire some of its innovations."
—Tezzeret , Dragon fire melts any instrument designed to measure it. , The mountain's voice shouts us all down. , "How can you accuse me of evil? Though these deeds be unsavory, no one will argue: good shall follow from them." , At sea, the Jhessian fleet strikes swiftly and decisively. On land, facing the elite cavalry of Valeron, its marines must rely on more cautious strategies. , What the vigor of life builds up, agony tears down again. , "There are terrors lurking in the unseen corners of us all."
—Crovax , At least this was better than that week at the Juri Revue. , It is hunted, but not for the kill. The magic within draws others to its presence. , "Elves and beasts are tied together, and I am the knot that binds them." , "Where has little Gossamer gone?"
—Thaniel, Gatstaf shepherd , Judge's ruling: The interior of the face still counts as the face, so a nose-pick is legitimate grounds for saying "Gotcha!" , "I don't want what I don't have. I want more of what I *do* have." , "Black spirits and white, red spirits and gray,/
Mingle, mingle, mingle, you that mingle may."
—Thomas Middleton, The Witch , "What was yours is mine. Your land, your people, and now your life."
—Lim-Dûl, the Necromancer , Cephalids specialize in things unseen, be they politics, betrayal, or themselves. , "Time is a vigilant tyrant, but there are those who have broken free of its gaze."
—Laikas, Erunian monk , Some wounds never heal. , "One touch to the stone and the sidar's son turned me from stalwart to statue."
—Karn, silver golem , No one knows when the tournament began. All they know is that it will never end. , "We've been practicing for this all our lives. This is the final test!"
—Korun Nar, Rubblebelt hunter , The first motion put forth in the pristine Jelenn Column was for severe restrictions on the airspace around New Prahv. , "Esper, like any work of art, can be truly appreciated only from a distance."
—Tezzeret , Jenrik's tower is served by those who once sought to enter it uninvited. , The Mirari twisted all that lived in the Krosan Forest into gross mockeries of their former selves. , It chases its airborne prey relentlessly, heedless to what it pulverizes beneath its hooves. , "Nothing ruins a party like one of those big killjoys bursting through the door and setting all the guests free."
—Ruba, Rakdos cultist , "Knock, knock." , Thassa's favor followed him to the Underworld. Even the waves of Nerono obeyed his will. , The ur-golems concealed one of their towers out of fear that its power would be abused, and in anticipation of a time when its power would be sorely needed. , The ur-golem runes tell of the transformation of Mirrodin's warden from silent guardian to merciless god. , Its etchings tell the ur-golems' stories of an entity able to force life into a lifeless plane. , The ur-golem etchings begin by celebrating Mirrodin's creator, a golem of almost limitless power. They end by cursing its protector, a being called Memnarch. , Etched on its surface are warnings from a long-lost race of ur-golems pushed to the brink of extinction. , Like the city, weakest at its foundation. , undefined , "So he gots a sword. Big deal."
"Yeah, it's a big deal—it's a big sword!"
—Two goblins outside the gates of Trokin , "It's a difficult task to quarantine a plague that moves with the clouds."
—Esara, healer adept , There are no "weak" creatures on Jund. Even the smallest can strike a deadly blow. , The nim have become roving killers marshaled by whichever thane holds tenuous leadership. , It doesn't need to use its venom—it just needs you to know it can. , Scents fade and footprints wash away, but some trails can never be erased. , The wise, the righteous, the mighty—the merchant feeds them all. , It is said that the wind will blow the world past if you wait long enough. , The spear thrown by Kytheon's own hand was the weapon that felled his friends. , Though Kefnet's followers feverishly searched his last words for some final riddle, they found only the gurgles of a dying god. , "In a healing world I write—I, who will never be healed. Let my last gift be one of memory: from a thousand lost thoughts, choose one, and remember my name." , Linger on death's door and risk being invited in. , "Our Elvish Hunter Taaveti led us swiftly along hidden paths through the dense forest. We caught the Orcs from behind, and completely by surprise."
—Lucilde Fiksdotter, Leader of the Order of the White Shield , It's much easier to list the places they *haven't* been. , "Every answer seems to lead to a more terrifying question."
—Jace Beleren , These are its last days. Better to grow broad and heavy. Better that the enemy is crushed beneath its carcass. , Some Ravnicans consider carrying a sword to be beneath them, preferring instead a tooth-and-claw escort. , "King Mulu's cheetahs came riding on the winds, charging, with fangs bared and claws flexed." , "They're smart enough to understand that war means lots of carrion."
—Griv, condor rider , To taunt a man into action, call him a coward. To insult him beyond forgiveness, call him a jackal. , "That arm's for bashin'. That one's for smashin'. That one's for scratchin'. And that one . . . I don't know what that one's for."
—Orgg trainer , "The desert asked the Ancestor for children, and the antelope were born."
—Nomad myth , Between matches, combatants practice to stay in peak mental and physical form. , "Vulshok flail, Viridian shield, loxodon blade . . . Tazzir, bring the Moriok hook and assemble the rookies."
—Vy Covalt, Neurok agent , Under the master's eye, skills are honed sharper and spells cut deeper. , "But then . . . oh, but . . . which means . . . which would lead to . . . exactly!" , "I can make you dance to my tune like a puppet, your very blood eager to obey."
—Olivia Voldaren , "Remind me again, what's the going rate for betrayal these days?"
—Captain Rhenmir , The horror lurched about like a puppet from a madman's nightmare, squeezing the life from its own kind. , "An ancient court mage unified the houses into guilds to serve Zhalfir above their own interests. Even during the civil war, the guilds stood together, a testament to the wisdom of Teferi."
—Afari, *Tales* , Despite the chaos of the Roil and the devastation of the Eldrazi, Zendikar is a world of breathtaking beauty. , "Even the fiercest storm has a peaceful eye."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , "Peace will come, but whether born of harmony or entropy I cannot say."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , Freyalise bought the planeswalkers the time they needed by clearing a path through the misshapen hell of Phyrexia. , "The first griffins were made by the gods to capture the falling stars; they were given the keenest eyes and the swiftest wings, and sent to keep watch above the clouds."
—*The Cosmogony* , "Fear of the unknown can be a wonderfully innocent thing, relatively speaking."
—Anowon, the Ruin Sage , Reluctant to meet face to face, the leaders of the ten guilds prefer to do official business through a go-between immune to bribes and threats. , "Forget yourself. Forget your city. Forget your homes, your families, the debts and obligations that hold you to this world." , "I'd like to introduce you to the new and improved me." , "You know what I was,/ You see what I am: change me, change me!"
—Randall Jarrell, *The Woman at the Washington Zoo* , "Meat sustains the body. The spirit requires different sustenance."
—Arel the Whisperer , "At some point, every trapfinder will lose a hunk of flesh. It's just a question of how much—and whether it'll grow back."
—Arhana, Kazandu trapfinder , Travelers in these waters leave a bit of themselves behind. , "I would advise you not to struggle."
—Huatli , "Trapmaking is an art. The trap is a corporeal riddle, a battle of wits between its creator and whatever it lures inside." , "At least up here I have some peace and quiet." , "How could I catch her when the trees conspired to stop me?" , Goblins generally have two possessions: one per hand. , He was left with just enough memory to understand what he had lost. , A vision of home, and a glimpse of hope. , The Champion and the philosopher Olexa returned from the opposing camp at dusk. Behind them, the enemy raised sail and departed, breaking the siege. When asked what the two had done, the Champion replied, "We spoke to them."
—*The Theriad* , Visiting a shrine at the start of a journey makes the traveler more likely to finish it. , With such great footsteps, everything is within walking distance. , Phenax is generous with gifts and unforgiving of debts. , "You cannot possibly know the toll your alliances will exact from you."
—Barrin, to Urza , "The academy educates; I employ. It's a perfect arrangement."
—Gatha, Tolarian renegade , "Boasting impenetrable defenses only draws the most tenacious of attackers."
—Yikaro, Atarka warrior , "Everything comes with a price. Especially revolution."
—Grenzo, dungeon warden , Countless delights drift on the surface while dark schemes run below. , Gorgons crave beautiful things: gems, exquisite amulets, the alabaster corpses of the petrified dead . . . , "The longer the journey, the more one learns."
—Isanke, Halimar seastalker , "The treasures of the ancients belong in museums, not in the grubby hands of grave robbers." , undefined , The Law of Givesies Backsies is respected by every noble pursuer of shiny things. , "Wealth means power; the power to subdue, to crush, to exploit, the power to enslave, to outrage, to degrade."
—Emma Goldman, "Anarchism" , Protected by druids for untold centuries, the forest began to return the favor. , Urza's wards fell from him like autumn leaves as he entered the dreaming grove. He awoke imprisoned in living wood. , Even the grandest forest begins with a single seedling.
—Llanowar saying , The vines and branches of the jungle canopy are all the wings it needs. , There will be no absolution. , The executioner's tree in Thraben Cathedral holds the power to absolve more than the souls of the hanged. , Tel-Jilad, sanctum of the ancient trolls, keepers of the secret of Mirrodin's origin. , The wisdom of the past is written on the bones of ancients. , No matter your strength, the Krosan Forest is stronger. No matter your speed, the Wirewood Forest is faster. , Gravity is truly what you make of it. , "If you can't catch them, cut the trees down from beneath them. Force them to fight on our terms."
—Mishra , At home among the swaying, supple branches of the treetops, some scouts live their entire lives never touching ground. , Crian's patrols afford him plenty of opportunity to take potshots at the "dirtwalkers" far below. , Otaria's frequent tremors are the last stages of Dominaria's recovery from the Phyrexian war. , Where do you run when the earth becomes your enemy? , The Keldons took several of the steeds as trophies of war. They'd never seen such a light beast stand so firm. , "Their arrival marks the end of Yawgmoth's subtlety."
—Urza , At the epicenter of the Rathi overlay, the City of Traitors did not align with Dominaria. Many of its inhabitants were caught between the two worlds. , Even in the relative safety of the city, there are places best left undisturbed. , "We thank the souleaters for surveilling our lives that we may be preserved from our own ignorance."
—Drones' hymn of gratitude , "Our land oppressed by silent Cold, We weary wretches, young and old, Pray that Springtime loose his hold."
—*The Dynasty of Winter Kings* , Kjeldorans who fled battle were exiled to the wastes. Those who strayed near Tresserhorn were pressed into service in Haakon's army. , Unwelcome in Golgari colonies, he found his own dark place from which to represent the Swarm. , "Treva is the voice of the ur-dragon, demanding cries of worship." , "You will succeed as one or fail as many." , "Instincts to guide. Strength to overcome." , "Eternal glory awaits you, my child." , The Zhalfirin war triangle represents a trinity of might, faith, and guile. , "Fire is the universal language."
—Jhoira, master artificer , Kamahl left the violence of his former life behind him, but he still believes in the power of muscle. , Marella was delighted. The ball had attracted so many suitors for her daughter, including that handsome stranger. She wondered where the two were now . . . . , "You may enter, but leave those lifeless things of your world behind."
—Modruni, maro-sorcerer , "Pathetic. You might as well have protected your treasures with a paper box and some string." , "If it ain't broke, I'll break it. If it *is* broke, I'll fix it." , "This exhibition of Nehra's Threshold Principle must be expropriated and examined for its potential applications in enforcement."
—Confiscation directive , A taut slipknot trigger is the only thing standing between you and standing. , Trip wire, hooked poles, and sunken pits were commonly used to unhorse riders during the Three Kingdoms period. , "Why do bad things always come in threes?"
—Gisulf, expedition survivor , The tritons broke the surface, and the Nyxborn broke ranks. , "Thassa has blessed me with power and insight. I am careful not to disappoint her." , "Who will miss you, drywalker? A wife? A child? Perhaps they will blame the sea for your fate, and teach future generations to stay far away from it." , At sunrise, the Champion and her companions awoke to find their supplies gone and Brygus, their sentry, dead. Carefully arranged piles of ornamental shells gave a clear warning: go no further.
—*The Theriad* , "You can no more stop me than you can halt the tide." , Not even death can quench a hero's inner fire. , "I've seen corpses prettier than you, beastmage."
—Liliana Vess , "Rid me of this curse, witch, or die with me."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , Battle tempers soldiers as fire tempers steel. , It's no coincidence that the oldest trolls are also the angriest. , His favorite food is kraul. , "I found a troll-horn fragment in the wooded foothills of Hurloon, and it keeps growing larger. I wonder, is the horn recreating itself or the troll?"
—Isel, master carver , "The secret of this world weighs upon us, and we have been shaped by time and duty to bear it." , Ground into the footprints of the ravaging herd were clumps of salt from Benalia, moss from Llanowar, dust from Hurloon, and ash from as far as Urborg. , "The tools of the past will help us forge the future." , "After the storm, I found a sea turtle dying on the sands, a blade of grass driven through its shell."
—*Travelogue of Najat* , There are no soloists in the chorus of Selesnya. , "Some cannot be saved as they are, but all can serve the Worldsoul."
—Trostani , "Which is worse: nothing to defend, or no one to defend it?" , As erratic and turbulent as a summer squall. , Not all victories require defeat.
—Onean idiom , So great is his certainty that mere facts cannot shake it. , Dozens of spells known only to the Auriok elders were lost, but the next generation, galvanized by war, devised even more potent magic. , Shoulder to shoulder until blade must turn against blade. , "Be careful, dear. Some people deserve their curses."
—Marawen, barrow witch , Its exploits are the stuff of legends among local chefs and fuel for nightmares among the forest thallids. , The sound of the trumpets lights a fire in the hearts of the bold and snuffs the courage of the cowardly. , These are its last days. But it will not go quietly. , An elephant never forgives. , Some of Minamo's students claimed he was as old as the knowledge he dispensed. , "Would you give your life to save the world?" Gideon murmured. The pegasus snorted and spread wide its mighty wings. , "Don't worry. If you lose me I'll be right behind you." , It shows affection an automaton never could. , "Until this expedition is done, that blade is your guardian, your liberator, and your best friend all rolled into one."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist , "Margaret has traveled with me to the end of the world and back."
—Hewen Frit, merchant , Wipe away the slobber and it's as good as new, give or take a few bite marks. , Held aloft by metabolized magic, trygons are ravenous for sources of mystic fuel. , "I might almost pity my enemies—if it wasn't so amusing to watch them die." , "Right now you are a feeble stick, but I will help you grow some rings." , Jund's thallids tried to disguise their deliciousness by covering themselves in spines harvested from the tukatongue tree. , An explorer of the Æther, Tuknir often discovers himself in the most unusual physical realms. , Goblins are more aggressive with a crowd to cheer them on. , As with everything else, goblins believe fortifications benefit from as many spiky bits as possible. , Remade by Eldrazi magic, Tuktuk inspired an entire clan of misguided goblins. , Magnetic devices that keep massive golems and structures standing can also be used for the opposite purpose. , A cross between a jaguar and an armadillo. , "I heard their eerie howling, the wolves calling their kindred across the frozen plains."
—Onean scout , If an anurid's lucky, it'll find a warm tunnel for bedtime. If a wurm's lucky, it'll find a warm anurid for breakfast. , Fight mischief with mischief. , As Ulamog's brood reduces the earth to dust, geopedes burst from their tunnels in search of solid ground. , Laquatus dreams of seizing control. , "I can't imagine how anyone lives in Shiv, let alone why they choose to stay."
—Sisay , The best cure for a big ego is a little failure. , "No, don't! Nal, it's me—" , "There are tides beyond those in the sea that are driven by Innistrad's silver moon. If you learn their patterns, you can channel them in fascinating ways."
—Tamiyo , "Your arrogance is my best weapon." , "Let their mindless armies come and face the might of genius."
—Varil, Neurok partisan , "For so long, this land cried out in pain. Now, as the flow returns to its balance point, a new harmony echoes in the trees." , The lone wolf dies alone. , "Zendikar's wounds can be healed." , undefined , Mirrodin's inhabitants must be prepared for anything—including suddenly being unprepared. , "Ribbit." , "Did you expect me to dodge? How quaint."
—Olka, mistmeadow witch , "If it wasn't a blackened, stinking, melted abomination before, it certainly is now."
—Koth of the Hammer , Common Gruul career aspirations: berserker, shaman, catapult. , A changeling involuntarily mimics the nearest being at hand, sometimes trading a borrowed shell for borrowed claws. , A band of Temur hunters, fleeing the Mardu, dug a hideout beneath such a creature as it slept. The horde found them and attacked. For three days the Temur held them at bay, and all the while the great beast slumbered. , One quiet word sets off the stampede. , "My people have always been here, and here we shall remain." , "Break one in half and you'll get a decent—if gooey—pair of weapons."
—Centaur warrior , As their roots soaked in a weak tea of bogwater and decay, the trees absorbed the essence of death into their living tissue. , A pet that can hunt both flesh and spirit is precious in a place where smiling assassins keep company with ghostly shadows. , Twilight falls. We rise.
—Necropolis inscription , Rumors swirl of a pair of deadly Golgari assassins only known as the Left and Right Hands of Ochran. , Righteous anger hones a humble soul. , Kolaghan archers are trained in Dakla, the way of the bow. They utilize their dragonlord's lightning to strike their target, no matter how small, how fast, or how far away. , Imitation is the most dangerous form of flattery. , It takes two to craft a mirror: a practiced metalsmith to silver one side and her own hazy reflection to polish the other. , A forest-wide network of webs brings a hungry couple to captured prey. , "Children, where are your parents?"
—Reig, wandering monk, last words , They're dying left and right. , Gatha showed remarkable prowess in increasing his subjects' stature. Their lifespans, however, were another matter. , "True strength is in the mind, for the body is too malleable a form."
—Politus, vedalken emisar , In Otiev's mind, he ruled in favor of the accused. But in his courtroom he was only a spectator, watching his hand deliver the sign of death. , Battles are won in nuance. , The left head keeps the right head starved as motivation to track new prey. , He watches the pass in both directions, and all must pay his toll. , None know if this Giant is the result of aberrant magics, Siamese twins, or a mentalist's schizophrenia. , "That which would be a fatal mutation in any other species is merely a source of new powers. I am intrigued, yet too fearful to examine it more closely."
—Rukarumel, field journal , "Thread the torsos together with angel hair to ensure they will cooperate in battle."
—*The Stitcher's Tome* , His memories remained in the Underworld, but his cruelty crossed the Rivers with him. , When Tasigur sent his ambassadors to the Abzan outpost, the true envoys were not the naga but the infectious rats they carried with them. , Fierce winds ripped across the tropical landscape. What they did not destroy with their fiery breath was washed away by torrential rain. , "I can stab you where it hurts, or where you will feel absolutely nothing."
—Illulia of Nighthearth , Nothing escapes its gaze—or its breath. , "Though tempered differently, all wills can be broken."
—Inquisitor Kyrik , "The hero with the magic sword slays the dragon? Not this time."
—Nicol Bolas , It outnumbers you one to many. , There are many gates into the undercity, but few ways out. , While trapping the Eldrazi on Zendikar, Ugin learned little from Sorin, but he gleaned the rudiments of lithomancy from Nahiri. , "You speak to me of the threat of Ulamog. But do not forget: they came as three."
—Ugin, to Jace Beleren , All at once Sarkhan's mind fell silent. , "The Uktabi efreet and I have something in common: both of our mothers wanted to give us back."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , Victim of the two-toed faerie
—Suq'Ata expression meaning "broken" , "I desire the acquisition of a potassium-rich fruit comestible of *substantial* magnitude." , "Is it true that the apes wear furs of gold when they marry?"
—Rana, Suq'Ata market fool , "The Silumgar hide behind the deadly wildlife of their swamps. They'd rather scheme in their jungle palaces than face us."
—Khibat, Kolaghan warrior , "Ulamog is dead, and his brood is dying. Some of them just don't know it yet."
—Nirthu, lone missionary , A force as voracious as time itself. , "If it were merely lethal, that would be sufficient. The art, however, is in maximizing the suffering it causes."
—Liliana Vess , "I am not its master. We are of the same pack."
—Ulrich, Krallenhorde alpha , "The realization that one is dying is far more terrifying than death itself."
—Sidisi, Silumgar vizier , Out chasing bears
—Kessig expression meaning "died in the woods" , undefined , undefined , "I tell you, the trees were closing in! It's by the grace of the Heron alone that I made it out of the Ulvenwald!"
—Ricton, traveling merchant , "Peace will come to Innistrad, but only after all abominations have been dealt with, one by one." , "Sea Gate is gone, the Halimar basin empty. But rebuild the seawall and give these waters time, and they will fill the basin anew." , "We tolerate the North Hada thieves' den, but cutthroats who wander downriver earn a skymanta ride out to sea." , Messenger, weapon, friend. , undefined , It was the explorers' only tether to reality. , It harnesses the power of night in a land where daylight fears to show itself. , "I have found the courage to face death—twice, if I must." , Don't venture into the darkness, lest it decide not to let you leave. , "Be ever loyal to your own best interests." , Creations made in madness may contain great power. The path to that power is as labyrinthine as the creator's mind. , From now until the crystals stop glowing
—Ketria oath meaning "forever" , "If the Consulate has abandoned restraint, so too shall the wilds."
—Surash, keeper of the Cowl , "Ambition requires clarity. If you have any doubts, they must be abandoned."
—Bontu, god of ambition , All crave the Blessed Sleep. Few receive it. , The cage is a crucible for the rage that builds inside, refining it into something pure and terrible. , The destruction of Rhonas's monument released his collection upon the city. , "To survive, we must embrace the savagery we knew in our race's infancy."
—Edgar Markov , Sathros turned his restraints to revenge. , "That energy was once granted to growing things. Now the kami keep it for themselves, releasing it in sudden floods that overwhelm flesh and foliage alike."
—Sakiko, Mother of Summer , Solitude drove the old hermit insane. Now he only keeps company with those he can catch. , The cold slowed their movements until only their panicked eyeballs swiveled beneath the ice. , A barbarian's heart pounds with the fury of a prisoner, threatening at any moment to break the bars of its cage. , The grounds of the Riptide Project are now populated only by slivers, broken beakers, and the lonely screeching of gulls. , The Implicit Maze winds through Ravnica, connecting arcane landmarks of all ten guilds. , "To see past the veil of death, cross it."
—*The Red Book of Mezdrithalik* , Heartless killer in life, brainless killer in death. , The Cabal loves encores. , "The work that went into creating this magnificent specimen. Horrific, deadly, well-balanced. Not all necromancers do elegant work like this."
—Lestin, necromancer , "There are always more like you."
—Modriss of Zargoth Fen , "My motive is not vengeance but mercy. I deliver the soulless back to their severed souls." , It has the strength of seven men. In fact, it used to be seven men. , "Scandal and slander are never welcome news. That's why I'm never the messenger." , In its territory, living is an affront. , "We grow strong by feasting on failure."
—Izoni , The undercity is always hungry. , "Officially, there's nothing under that bridge to hunt . . . Unofficially, my torchers are too terrified to go there after nightfall."
—Agrus Kos , "Now it's your turn to hide."
—Vraska , In that battleground of a ring, the rules aren't nearly so black and white. , "It is the work of sorcery. Burn it!"
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, Elvish Hunter , It sees a rotting carcass as a good wine which has been aged properly. , To get to Valor's Reach, competitors must first make a name for themselves in the smaller arenas. , "Which would you like first, the insult or the injury?" , "You've strayed, overworlder." , The weight of death is heavy but not immovable. , Coins of the Underworld are shaped from clay funerary masks. , If you're looking for it, it's available. The question is how much you're willing to pay. , Dreams are just one more form of torment. , The Underworld is anything but a resting place. , Deathless soldiers called phylaskia guard the borders of the Underworld. , Jolrael's choice of homes was far better than her choice of allies. , "Oft have I wished to undo past deeds, but never did I imagine they would be undone for me."
—Naimah, Femeref philosopher , "Is it true the evil that people do follows them into death? Let's find out."
—Liliana Vess , Radha was born in Skyshroud, but her temper is undeniably Keldon. , No matter how deep you bury it, some evil refuses to stay dead. , "We are trapped. The mountains and blinding kami storms have made us hopelessly lost. We are starving. In the name of all things sacred, please, send help . . . ."
—Lost Battalion, final message to General Takeno , "With the frequent mutations, predator-prey relationships seem to change every moment. I already like it here."
—Vivien Reid , Once you've been dragged down the currents of time, you'll never quite trust your own permanence again. , The first thing the mist chills is the mind. Victims never cry out or even murmur in surprise. , Rowan and Will exchanged a baffled glance. Could the stag in the vision lead them to their father? , As Trostani's influence grew, vitality spread through the Conclave—much to the other guilds' dismay. , Compared to the fire of the forge, the strength of steel is nothing. , Disputes within the Brazen Coalition can escalate from insult to broadside in the blink of an eye. , "Like Day from Night, / I'll live my life apart from you, just glimpsing you across the sky, / because you cannot change, my dear, and nor can I."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , Agreements with demons seldom end at the grave. , "Don't let your mind wander—it might not come back."
—Braids, dementia summoner , Liliana viewed the attention of the angels as a testament to her power. Even so, they were an annoyance. , "Don't think of it as selling your soul. It's more like you're bequeathing it to me."
—Vilis, Broker of Blood , Such power grows the body as it shrinks the soul. , The kor's pride in their independence has given way to a strong sense of community that embraces all of Zendikar. , The tall, reedy grass of the Daru Plains rustles loudly in the winds, a perfect cover for any ambush. , "We're glad to be of service—to be an audience to your failure."
—Maizah Shere, Tazeem lullmage , Scribbles of a lunatic and formulas of a genius are often indistinguishable. , undefined , Faced with the novel problem of inspiring an army, Jace asked himself: "What would Gideon say?" , "Within minutes, the strange device was indistinguishable from the other on my workbench."
—Tocasia, journal entry , "A few drops of this, and the trickiest problems simply melt away."
—Thamaz, Weldfast inventor , "Callaphe gazed on the coastline,
certain her destiny called her
here, where the mist-shrouded rocks sang,
promising glories undreamed of."
—*The Callapheia* , Might doesn't make right, but it does win the fight. , "I'd stand back if I were you." , "I appreciate you not letting me fall to my death in the acid bogs. Now, can you let me down?" , "Strange alliances are alliances still, and provide the same protection."
—King Darien of Kjeldor , "The victim bears the marks of the 'Ktozok Impaler'. . . but he was executed years ago!"
—Gorev Hadszak, Wojek investigator , A gwyllion's favorite trap is the vanity mirror. A bewitched piece of glass traps the looker's soul and does away with the body. , "I'm raising an army. Any volunteers?" , A well-chosen word can restore a mind or snap its tethers. , The battle served as a grim reminder of what a final victory for the Eldrazi would mean. , "Eldrazi don't die easy. Sometimes they don't die at all."
—Yon Basrel, Oran-Rief survivalist , "Domination by the strongest—that is all that matters in the Tangle now."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , What nature makes, magic can modify. , "How can we hope to match the speed of lightning? The fury of storms? The power of mountains? The answer is simple. We cannot. I advise against this war."
—Sensei Hisoka, letter to Lord Konda , "If fear is the only tool you have left, then you'll never control me."
—Xantcha, to Gix , The scales of battle rarely balance. , After Gideon cleansed the Ninth District, none of the ganglords challenged the Boros. , "We are no longer in control."
—Elekh, vizier of embalming , Thaumaturges of Theros have learned to weave their magic into the world around them, but it can be pulled apart strand by strand. , "Those who aren't welcome will know it!"
—Kolman, elder of Gatstaf , "To pass through the jungle: silence, courtesy, ferocity, as the occasion demands."
—Kamau, "Proper Passage" , The call of the sea shapes many souls. , The symbols are spread throughout Aphetto, marking sites where minions of the Raven Guild and the Cabal can seek refuge. , A long way down is shorter than you think. , The goblins went to sleep in Jund and awoke in Grixis. They'd never seen a zombie before. They would never see one again. , Its collapse is like the lashing out of a long-dead civilization that resents being forgotten. , "In a world of untruths, the living lie rules."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , "Nicely done, Jace. You always were good at disappearing acts."
—Liliana Vess , "Don't you have somewhere else to be?"
—Sharuum the Hegemon , Untaidake is the needle that weaves the fabric of creation. , "Mindlessness is not weakness. When we are lost to hunger we are unstoppable."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief , "Beasts kill for their very survival. If you would have their strength, you must know their desperation."
—Konnos, Sylvok sage , No forest is so remote that the elves don't know its secrets. , Rules and rails are made to be broken. , Frorn didn't want to be kept, but he didn't want to be thrown back either. , "A problem is only a problem if you don't have the tools to correct it."
—Jhoira , "The partisans have unearthed a strange artifact. None know its origin, but it gives them hope of a life beyond."
—Elspeth's journal , "Great Yawgmoth moves across the seas of shard and bone and rust. We exalt him in life, in death, and in between."
—*Phyrexian Scriptures* , With no jungle left to contain it, the "plague of daggers" spread across Dominaria. , "Much can be learned from the bees about dying for a cause."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , The griffin's shadow gives courage to the righteous and dread to the idle. , "The man whom I call father killed the orc who sired me, offering his world and his blade in return." , "Come one, come all! this rock shall fly From its firm base as soon as I."
—Sir Walter Scott, "The Lady of the Lake" , "It slips through the smallest cracks in the mountain, emerging whole and unfettered. There is nowhere it cannot go, for what can hold back the air itself?"
—Chanyi, Ojutai monk , The calm comes after the storm. , Cho-Manno knew he had no choice but to ally with Gerrard. If that's what it took to free his people, he'd pay the price. , "We arrived at the battlefield too late. *Again*. Another error on your part, and you will have to answer to me personally."
—General Takeno, letter to the imperial mapmaker , Freyalise promised a dawn that would never end, a day of limitless life. As many dread her promise as revere it. , When the Mirran resistance arrived, the furnace dwellers looked to Urabrask for guidance. His decree stunned the others: "Let them be." , The ruins of Old Prahv became a wildspace, although all birdsong was silenced by lingering Azorius magic. , As the Simic released more of their krasis experiments, they required new habitats, always at the expense of the locals. , Ravnica's diversity produces blossoms of opinion in a rich soil of perspectives. , "Guilds be damned. We can fend for ourselves."
—Vennick of the Gateless , "Resignedly beneath the sky/The melancholy waters lie./So blend the turrets and shadows there/That all seem pendulous in air,/While from a proud tower in town/Death looks gigantically down."
—Edgar Allan Poe, "The City in the Sea" , Relentless as the sea, remorseless as death. , The elves of Urborg are as deadly and capricious as the swamp itself. , "It is a narrow line between justice and vengeance."
—Crovax , "My pet will pick the ripe fruit from your tortured brain as if it were hanging from a vine."
—Kaervek , A chilling fog with teeth of ice. , A writhing mass of rot, with sharp claws and a vicious spirit. , "May you be a stalker's dream."
—Urborg curse , "I have become a gourmet of sorts. Each soul has its own distinctive flavor. The art is in inviting the right company to the feast." , "Yawgmoth's corpse is a wound in the universe. His foul blood seeps out, infecting the land with his final curse."
—Lord Windgrace , In Urborg, few things are less permanent than death. , Deep in the heart of Urborg lie massive volcanoes whose thick black smoke covers the land with perpetual darkness. , "To show geists pity is to prolong their agonies. Whether they know it or not, they seek the Blessed Sleep, and we are to give it to them."
—Mikaeus, the Lunarch , Ur-golems once dominated the plane. Even now, they maintain a deep connection to it. , As the phantom flies overhead, the city of Vhelnish screams in silence. , It strides through the whitecover, mists in which even gargantuans can hide. , A friendly ursapine means a constant supply of sharp spears. An unfriendly one means a constant supply of small holes. , "Would you rather feel the edge of blade or the sharpness of my fangs?" , Urza protected his body well, but neglected his soul. , Unable to settle on just one design, Urza decided to create one versatile being. , From concept to paper to reality. , When sorely wounded or tired, Urza would often retreat to the workshops of his apprentices. They were greatly amazed at how much better he looked each time he took a sip of water. , "Humans and machines working together can be fearsome indeed!"
—Arcum Dagsson , "Though their ideals are leagues apart, Urza's and Mishra's creations have a surprising harmony with one another."
—Tocasia, journal entry , "It's a tool for aiding my other tools," explained Urza. "Now they'll work in harmony." , Deep in Yawgmoth's realm, Urza stopped dead in his tracks and rubbed his soot-filled eyes. "Mishra?" , www.wizards.com/hottub , "Stop thinking like an artificer, Urza, and start thinking like a father!"
—Rayne, chancellor of the Tolarian Academy , In his hunger for power and knowledge, Urza dug deep into Dominaria's ancient past. , Urza threw himself into his research, pushing the boundaries of both possibility and morality. , Centuries ago, one man's vengeance plunged the world into ice and darkness. , "Truly understanding even one volume can be a life's work."
—Naru Meha, master wizard , Urza studied the creations of the Thran not simply to learn from them, but to surpass them. , "Oi oi oi, me gotta hurt in 'ere, Oi oi oi, me smell a ting is near, Gonna bosh 'n gonna nosh 'n da hurt'll disappear."
—Troll chant , "Hold on a second, I have just the thing." , The fruit of this fabled tree takes on the flavor of whatever food you love most. , "I'll guard this fruit and its seedling until the land is healed. My life now belongs to Dominaria." , "I came seeking a challenge. All I found was you."
—Zurgo, khan of the Mardu , The fear of dragons is as old and as powerful as the fear of death itself. , He wages war wherever the wind carries him. , Plowbeasts of Naya escaped their harnesses in droves, content to snack on the conveniently cultivated fields of Eos and Valeron. , undefined , "Just move very slowly, and for the love of Ula, do not get it mad."
—Chadir the Navigator , "As long as we have walked this world, we have known it as a harsh and unforgiving place."
—*The Invokers' Tales* , "Whatever volcanoes dream of, it seems like they always wake up grumpy."
—Raff Slugeater, goblin shortcutter , The hammer strikes. The Flame awakens. , After years of honing her philosophy in debate with stubborn rhoxes, Niella was ready to convert any heathen. , As the outsiders invaded Bant, soldiers who once saw sigils as the highest marks of glory began to see the scars of battle as tokens of equal worth. , "Defeat is no reason for retreat. It is a sign we must redouble our efforts to win this fight." , The floating city of Skysail has two rules: don't leave your crewmates behind, and don't mess with the guardrails. , Mardu riders' greatest fear is that a battle might end before their weapons draw blood. , Their home uprooted by a giant, the gang of boggarts mourned their old stomping ground. , "The cracks widened, the shell crumbled, and Valor spread throughout the land."
—*Scroll of Beginnings* , There's no stronger armor than the bravery of those beside you. , "As my father taught, 'Training will raise your shield to the blow, but courage fills the gaps the shield leaves open.'" , Stand in the way of truth at your peril. , "Every choice alters the path of fate."
—Sarkhan Vol , A unicorn chooses only the most virtuous and noble of knights to be its companion. , "I admit, I am a creature of the city. The sights, the nightly excitement, the abundance of fine drink . . ." , "For something is amiss or out of place / When mice with wings can wear a human face."
—Theodore Roethke, "The Bat" , "These pirates must answer for their ancestors, who renounced the Church of Dusk and sailed from Torrezon as heretics." , Not all monsters have tentacles. , "Zendikar will fight until it has bled its last." , When the blood hunt lost its thrill, she looked for less tangible means of domination. , The hounds' barks are a horrifying chorus of screams, moans, and whispers. , He listens to every heartbeat, deciding which one of hundreds he will stop. , The lacerators cut themselves before each hunt. They must feed before the sun rises or bleed to death. , One day, they may be paragons of deadly elegance. For the moment, they possess nothing but thirst. , As they fought the Eldrazi, many vampires learned to live among humans. Others were unable to make the adjustment. , "No emergency is so dire that it cannot be dealt with elegantly."
—Olivia Voldaren , "Your life will set with the sun." , "This place suits me: craven authorities and plentiful prey." , "I think I cracked a fang." , Some vampires reject the decadent trappings of their kind. Once they turn feral, no amount of blood will satisfy their hunger. , "A thick fog obscures the port of Leor, but it's not thick enough to muffle the screams."
—Admiral Beckett Brass , "Your service shall be rewarded."
—Queen Lian , The Feast of Blood sends new life essence flowing through the vampire who partakes, manifesting as even greater strength and speed. , "How can you serve me? By dying." , It's not always gold the thief is after. , Many peasants secretly admire vampires' glamour and elegance—until they witness a moment of pure bloodlust. , The familiar's fangs deliver the master's bite. , For vampires, blood carries more than life. Memories long eroded from the minds of bloodchiefs can be reclaimed from the veins of their sired kin. , They draw upon the strength of their hive and of their victims. , A touch, not comforting, but of death. , True power is achieved through blood and sweat. But mostly blood. , undefined , Beauty is in the eye of the exploder. , "As we have learned from Kolaghan, to ruin is to rule."
—Shensu, Kolaghan rider , "The humans and their gods never blessed me. Only the pride deserves my allegiance." , Wars are not fought on a single front. , "Careless, like a child with fire, so was I with time."
—Teferi , Out of sight, into mind. , "All beings have an inner light. Let me show you yours."
—Ushanti, leonin seer , Open conflict between expeditionary houses—or even individual adventuring parties—is discouraged, but "accidents" happen. , "Someone knows where the king is. They can't expect to keep it a secret from us." , "Mists are carefree. They drift where they will, unencumbered by rocks and river beds."
—Thrasios, triton hero , "What is taking them so long to fill the waterskins?"
—Mwani, Mtenda goatherd , "This creature is inadequate. Send it to the splicers for innovation."
—Malcator, Executor of Synthesis , "Every patch of land must belong to Kjeldor, no matter what the cost!"
—General Varchild , "What tries to crush our spirit only strengthens our resolve."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain , "My life is yours, my lord. There is no greater service than to yield it for your safety." , For the Azorius, the opportunity to serve the law is too great an honor for death to interrupt. , He calls on the forests for counsel and summons the earth to his cause. , undefined , "A long and difficult incision revealed that all vital organs are housed in the head, save for a long chain of stomachs, forty in all, leading from its throat to the end of the tail."
—Mulak Ffar, *Vastwood Biodiversity* , Where victors are commemorated and moments of glory immortalized. , "For centuries my creation kept this world in balance. Now only her shadow remains."
—Sorin Markov , Ish Sah, den of the warlord Geth, commander of countless nim. , From the remnants of the dead, Geth forged a swarm to safeguard his throne. , "The edges of the Quicksilver Sea run dark with the spread of the Mephidross. Two more aerial passes before I can be sure what I'm seeing . . ."
—Lafarius, Neurok sky agent , With their life energy suppressed under their etherium enhancements, thieves from Esper found it surprisingly easy to explore the ruins of Grixis. , "I appreciate the artistry of the telemins, but the creatures of the other worlds provide a much more dramatic performance."
—Ennor, mentalist , Even on Esper, there are those who eschew the use of magic in favor of simpler methods. , Phyrexia's machines take inspiration from nature. Twisted, disturbing inspiration. , "Specimen 211 examination report. Observation: graft sublimation incomplete. Result: death. Prepare specimen 212." , "The Knowledge Pool knows. Memnarch understands."
—Janus, speaker of the synod , Vedalken have six thin, agile fingers on each hand, giving them unparalleled dexterity. , "An appropriately detailed model is indistinguishable from reality, and much easier to control." , "I crept up on him, quiet as a guttermouse. And then suddenly I found myself facedown in a latrine pit behind Tin Street Market."
—Sirislav, Dimir spy , Art is unknown to the vedalken—for them, all creations must serve a purpose. , Their denial reaches far into your future. , For four nights following Ennor's death and the reclaiming of his etherium, its recipients were found slain, the etherium ripped from their bodies. , "Etherium clouded my eyes, clogged my ears, desensitized my skin. Now that I can feel, I can begin to learn." , "And who will stop me? You?" , "All plans begin as dreams. I intend to awaken them." , The vedalken see other beings from a cold distance, as either experimental subjects or objects of study. , "There's no need to sound the alarm. You are minding your post admirably. I am authorized. All is well." , The model incorporated the fifth sun effortlessly, as if it had always known. , The Seekers of Carmot searched across the unknown lands for the mystical red stone that could reforge Esper in ethereal perfection. , "Fair? At what point in our negotiations did you convince yourself my goal was to be fair?" , Liliana's voice carries far, reaching beyond the cold pall of death. , Some roads are paved with bad intentions. , "I sang songs of sorrow for my lost love. Imagine my horror when, one night, they were answered."
—Milana, Orzhov prelate , When wind marries sky, even the bride's veil sings her praises. , Sometimes it's ostentatious to go unseen. , Vela snuffs out every trace of Krond's reign, leaving pure nightfall in her wake. , "Poor, foolish Veldrane. He goes wherever the Baron wills him. One day, he'll go to die."
—Halina, Dwarven Trader , Dream of nothing, and wake to a dream come true. , "Consider my debt to your kin paid in full."
—Idrol, Guul Draz assassin , "May this blade guide you on your great journey, as it did me on mine." , Lammasu are the enigmatic travelers of Tarkir, soaring high above all lands in all seasons. None know their true purpose, but they often arrive on the eve of great conflicts or turning points in history. , Age wears the flesh but galvanizes the soul. , "The unfathomable is upon us, students. I have no doubt you will rise to the occasion." , Bitter as wormwood, sweet as mulled wine. , "Those who stood in my path now lay behind me." , Those who don't learn from their deaths are destined to repeat them. , Devils love adding injury to injury. , Teroh dreams of his enemies' doom. , The flame of a warrior is never extinguished. , Some aetherborn joined the rebellion for profit, others for the sake of their freedom, still others for revenge. , He wields the full power of wrath unfettered by the sympathies of a soul. , "Try to steal from me and I'll add your skull to my collection." , Leave but a shred of root and it will return, bursting with vigor. , "I told him it was just a flesh wound, but the next time I looked at him, poor Tadhg was dead and gone."
—Maeveen O'Donagh,
*Memoirs of a Soldier* , The dryads need neither size nor strength to defeat their enemies in battle. , It doesn't contain venom. It is venom. , A pretty little death is still death. , All the pain of the shattered forest contained in a single drop. , "Many have sought snake-twined Pharika's panacea. Do you wish to share their fate?" , "True strength comes from within. The false promise of unnatural power only incurs Krosa's wrath."
—Seton, centaur druid , "We attacked with arrows dipped in poison. The slivers that did not die began to change."
—Hastric, Thunian scout , "Each reality is but the dream of another, and each sleeper a god unknowing." , His marvels of artifice pale in comparison to the developing machinery of his mind. , A Planeswalker's chronicle spans worlds and civilizations, each page a lifetime. , Venser admired his handiwork and smiled. His first prototype had joined with the hive mind all too well, running with the brood and becoming a predator itself. This one, he thought, would be accepted into the hive but still obey his commands. , "Zendikar fortifies itself against the Great Threat, making sentries of sky, sea, and stone."
—*The War Diaries* , "A perfect fusion of nature and artifice."
—Irsi, Kujar gardener , Jolrael tends the land so that the land will tend the beasts. , The bower shuddered. The stillness broke. The scurf shifted, and a being emerged from the flowers and ferns. , The dryads of the forest have no stake in Ixalan's conflict, but they hate to see any living being suffer. , "Ixalli's fertile rays enliven us all. Each of us is a testament to the sun's strength and love."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider , "Only the most sophisticated inventions can survive nature's unsophisticated motivations."
—Hanna, *Weatherlight* navigator , "Graceful? Yes. Beautiful? Absolutely. Harmless? Definitely not."
—Fyndhorn elder , "Here, there is only truth."
—Barvisa, Azorius emissary , Mirrodin's artificial environment requires its own predators, scavengers, and senseless forces of nature. , "Selesnya's soil is sacred, and you're about to meet it with your face." , The sun breaks, the beasts stir, and the forest awakens to stand against its enemies. , "I saw the wizard gesturing, but I didn't guess his plan until my aesthir cried out and went into a dive."
—Arna Kennerüd, skyknight , "Nature's exceptions remind us not to think in absolutes. Just as the orchid blossoms on blackened stone, so does the gift of mana occasionally manifest in the undead."
—Bougrat, druid of the Cult of Yore , Geists seeking redemption must first be given the opportunity. , From within its prison, the book endlessly whispers words of cruelty and spite. , "Write everything down. Trust me."
—Vallon, Thraben inspector , "To be honest, I'm not quite sure what's going to happen."
—Renna, Selhoff alchemist , Emrakul has not been seen in months. Though her brood's numbers have dwindled in her absence, each drone is still a deadly threat. , It is everywhere you've ever been. , "How can I be of assistance?" , "Give me a sword and I'll kill a few enemies. But give me a hammer and a fiery forge, and I'll turn the tide of battle." , "Courage is a proud and gleaming shield. It does not bend or hide from sight. To fight with courage, we must forge in steel." , Good bodyguards are hard to find, mainly because they don't live long. , Death awaits them on both fronts. , "Prayers can be powerful, but I prefer to put faith in my own two hands." , Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone.
—Arabian proverb , He's set to compete in every race at the Fair, and he plans to win them all. , In the backwaters of the Merrow Lanes lie stones scarred with tallies of countless generations, each representing a victory of merrow soldiers. , "Assume everything wants to kill you. At the very least, assume everything wants what's in your pack." , "I've broken three swords, eighteen lances, and countless shields, but this little blade has survived every battle, just like I have." , "Good soldiers rely first upon their training, then upon their instincts."
—King Darien of Kjeldor , "Truth is a straight, keen edge. There are no soft angles or rounded edges. To fight for truth, we must forge in steel." , "The druids would be better off if they spent more time in the lab and less time watching trees grow."
—Pontifex, elder researcher , As the Mirari's mutating effects grew out of control, centaurs and druids fled—but insects swarmed closer. , It's not any fun until someone loses an eye. , "May the skies be clear of gales and gulls."
—Meletian prayer , The stench of bloodcap mushrooms on the breath is enough to ward off even the most potent magics, especially when combined with a special chant: "Hushhh." , "Sir, I just thought . . . ," explained Vhati. "Don't think," interrupted Greven. "It doesn't suit you." , "The artificer assured me that the vial is strong enough to contain the dragon's breath. I just need to make sure to throw it far enough."
—Kunh Mei, last words , There are worse ways to die, but not many. , When the bey runs, match his stride.
—Viashino saying , "Find your courage in a desperate moment, and you turn the tide of history. So sayeth the bey." , "You guys go on ahead. I'll catch up with ya."
—Vark, goblin scout, last words , "When the bony terminus gets too large, it's shed from the tail in coinciding periods of heightened aggression and hunger."
—Simic research notes , "All that steel doesn't make them slower. It makes them bolder."
—Tajic, Blade of the Legion , "They've returned for the mana rig, but it no longer belongs to them."
—Viashino bey , "The past is buried for good reason." , "Give thy ration to thy mount, if the road be long. So sayeth the bey." , "I trained with the Ghitu, and I respect the fire as they do." , "You may call me a fool, selling this stuff on Orzhov turf. Well, you need to be a little reckless to survive." , "It moved this way, an' that way, an' then before I could stick it, it jumped over my head an' was gone."
—Jula, goblin raider , A viashino's overlapping scales form a buffer against Shiv's ash-flecked winds and a slippery target for goblin pikes. , "Some believe sandstalkers to be illusions; those with scars know better."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert* , Few swim in a place of such thirst. , The Slizt Clan's battle cry is an impressive display of fury, defiance, and spit. , Underneath the Dregscape lay the remains of creatures long extinct from Grixis. , Citizens of Ravnica stick to the main streets. Shortcuts may look tempting, but down each alley, dozens of hungry hands await, and screams do not carry into the busy market throng. , "I'll fight two at once, and then lick their guts from my blades." , Viashino lack the majesty of their draconic ancestors, but they lash out with equal rage and twice the spite. , "When traveling the Great Desert avoid wearing the scales of lizards, for the Viashino rule the sands and look poorly on the skinning of their cousins."
—*Zhalfirin Guide to the Desert* , Within the rig settlement, those who have mastered the making of weapons earn highest honor. , The Viashivan understand that cruelty arises from opportunity. , "Unearthly and invisible fibers emanate from this sphere, entangling all who draw near."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , "He is ambitious. Tireless. And utterly ruthless. Ideal for the frontier."
—Viceroy Elia Sotonores, report to the queen , Only the most ravenous soul feeds on the health of the weak. , As battle raged in Shiv, a strange new ally appeared from below the ravaged ground. , "The alliances were already frayed. All we do is find the loose threads and pluck."
—Lazav , "Thrashes of the ancient past still linger in spirit and shadow, desperate to sink their claws into our souls."
—Rakka Mar , "Die. But die knowing that your pathetic life will yield a great bounty for me."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord , "Do not touch a drop. Not yet. I want to watch this so-called slayer's last crisis of faith."
—Olivia Voldaren , "The refugees look at these structures with hope. We must relieve them of this burden."
—Juex, tormentor exarch , The favored noisemaker of goblins ever since the wardens cracked down on explosives. , Her paean is the clash of spears, her prayer a battle cry. , The corruption stirred the heavens above, awaking a shining champion. , "We are kinfolk," explained Karn to the sliver queen. "Just as you need your progeny to complete you, so do I need the pieces of the Legacy to make me whole." , "This air feels so heavy and thick. There are no winds to speak of. I fear the knowledge that comes from a place like this." , Fruits of magic, roots in science. , "Put a spear in a peasant's hands, and you have an expendable troop. Put a purpose in his heart, and you win a warrior."
—Sensei Golden-Tail , Villagers employ watchdogs as guardians and companions. Druids prefer something a little bigger. , It can stay aloft for weeks with little or no sleep. , It begins as a whisper and ends with the red roar of fire. , "As she grew cold in my arms, I swore an oath that her funeral pyre would be dwarfed by a bonfire of our enemies." , After fear and weakness rot away, that which remains is stronger than its living form. , undefined , The plague moved faster than an army and was far more deadly. , "The Cabal and the Order really aren't that different. After all, we are both empowered by faith." , The glyphs writhed and twisted, spewing out dark, vengeful magic. , Grave robbers digging down cautiously listen for anything digging up. , "You can sign, or you can spend your life imagining what might have been yours." , "Priests, hunters, slayers—to arms! The enemy approaches!" , Some have endured the horrors of Innistrad by becoming the worst monsters of all. , "Enchant me with your tale-telling. Tell about Tree, Grass, River, and Wind. / Tell why Truth must fight with Falsehood, and why Truth will always win."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , undefined , undefined , "You were so eager to take and consume. Yet when asked to give, you refuse?" , undefined , As their villages fell to werewolves, fleeing refugees discovered they too had remarkable survival instincts. , "The war saw the ogres emerge from their caves, reeking of blood, with the power of oni in their veins."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , Gold buys death. Death earns gold. , "I have seen entire civilizations rise and fall. You mortals are but dust to me."
—Sorin Markov , Heart, mind, soul—weapons all. , Many minds, a single madness. , In theory, the Guildpact keeps guild feuds form spiraling out of control. Personal feuds, however, are not covered. , "It's cute now, but those things tend to get a lot bigger when you're not looking."
—Fahar, expedition wizard , It grows to hate you. , When it passes, the dead are displaced by flourishing life. , She has never touched a loom, yet the tapestries she weaves are vast and beautiful. , Nissa found that the vines of the marsh could ensnare just as well as forest vines could—maybe even better. , "The most elegant solutions are found in nature. You just have to know where to look." , Nature twists knots stronger than any rope. , Fortified by the wilds. , Trained with the aid of rhystic magic, they become uneasy in its absence. , "The snapper is still when all else moves
And strikes when all are dozing."
—*Tales of the Vintara Forest* , Initiates in the heat of combat must be able to adapt to changing conditions. , "Words are a waste of time. Destruction is a language everyone understands."
—Sarkhan Vol , A faerie is the offspring of Oona and mischief. , "I could heal a snakebite. Looks like you got bitten by a constellation."
—Aescalos, healer of Pharika , In the wisps that night, the once timid boggart saw all the terrible, bloody things he was capable of. And it was glorious. , "We have no sun to guide our dead, so I tend the prismatic flames of the spirit fires that show the souls their way. When I die, I hope there is one left to guide my spirit home." , To secure a place in Phyrexia's ranks, they hunted their surviving kin. , "Phyrexians can't corrupt what they can't get close enough to touch." , "In the midst of horror beyond imagining, I still see things that lift my heart."
—Ezuri , "The Tangle reaches out to itself constantly, forming new connections. We must follow its example." , A small band of elves pledged many years ago to avoid the Edges of Forgetting. They have remained hidden until now. , "Let them have their revel. Soon those who won't submit will be turned. Those who won't be turned will die."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , They know a hoverguard's only blind spot is directly above it. , She stands as a living symbol of the natural world and an enemy of the forces that threaten it. , "I will fight only the way nature intended—and nature intended us to win." , All must fall, and those who stand highest fall hardest. , "The empire belongs to no one man but to all in the empire. He who has virtue shall possess it." , Brutality had never been so exquisite. , "This pestilence robs us of glorious death in battle. We starve to death with full bellies and drown trying to slake our unnatural thirst."
—Kerai Hatesinger, Kolaghan warrior , Sadly, the extent of Gerkk's healing knowledge was "don't pick at it." , "My eyes are my strongest feature." , In matters of life and death, he trusts his gut. , A fallen viscerid's only tribute is to be worn by a comrade. , Not all of Terisiare's flooding was natural . . . . , "Lemurs? Is that all? Finally, something harmless . . ."
—Norin the Wary , "This may hurt a lot." , "It's a multifunctional radial extension system with superlateral, force-amplifying rigging. Of course it will win." , "Visions of glory, spare my aching sight,
Ye unborn ages, crowd not on my soul!"
—Thomas Gray, "The Bard" , "I could see in the other mage's eyes that he'd thought of it too. Then it became a race to exploit the knowledge first." , "The past is the foundation for all that exists in the present. We merely reconstruct what our ancestors have already discovered."
—Sachimir, Sage of Memories , "After waking to the magic of Llanowar, no dreams can compare."
—Mirri of the *Weatherlight* , "Water is like breathing—necessary for life."
—Asmira, Holy Avenger , "The fifth wind of ascension is Exalter, fulfilling Keld's destiny."
—*Keld Triumphant* , "For every one that falls, ten shall rise. The revelation of New Phyrexia is at hand."
—Vorinclex, Voice of Hunger , "Here is the proof that what has been done may yet be undone. The hope we thought dead will be gloriously reborn." , "Through the blood of the wicked, we shall be redeemed. Let us pray." , "Preachers of freedom forget that conformity can be beautiful." , In the autumn, she casts her seeds across the streets below, and come spring, her children rise in service to the Conclave. , The rainbow seen above the Great Lake of Cloud Dream just after the rain is nothing but the vivid-colored flying fishes' ritual dance. , Golgari crops bloom in strange soil, touched only by long-traveled light. , "Regardless of where they come from, crocs are usually able to find their way home. For this one, home is me."
—Vivien Reid , Each of Vivien's arrows is an invocation of a species. , Near the Krosan border, farmers keep watch over their fields lest the sod get up and wander away. , Phyrexians research with the grace of surgeons and the finesse of butchers. , "You'll need all your strength for the trials to come." , His blessing is a curse. , Outnumbered, but not outmatched. , "Time is like the Luxa River—though it flows in one direction, it can be diverted." , Orzhov vampires look for allies in unlikely places in case their new guildmaster turns on them. The fate of the Obzedat is proof of Kaya's power and her hatred of the living dead. , A bored wizard once created a vizzerdrix out of a bunny and a piranha. He never made *that* mistake again. , The Vodalian Empire tends to be insular. The scholarly Volshe caste are the exception, using education as an antidote to xenophobia. , "Deceit is the heart of war." , "Torahn gore these shifty fishtails! You can't even get close to one."
—Tahngarth of the *Weatherlight* , Fear the knight leaping from the water into the air, weapon ready. , "Vodalian Mages are remarkable. Their merchants bring them arcane lore and devices from across the seas."
—Lydia Wynforth, Mayor of Trokair , Not choosing sides in a war can be dangerous—but lucrative. , "Sometimes when I look at the ocean, I could swear it changes colors."
—Sisay , "Vodalian rank is displayed by the colors and patterns of their skin. Beware the color red; that is the badge of the empress's favor."
—Corbio, pearl diver , "Every last one of you will become my servant. It's a shame you won't live to see the irony."
—Tsabo Tavoc, Phyrexian general , "I'd rather take on a neckbiter or moonhowler any day. Oh well, looks like I'm going to end up parrying with empty air half the night."
—Saint Trogen, the Slayer , "Next to Law is Duty, and Duty must be obeyed. If the frame of Duty is broken, none shall weave life's fabric."
—*Song of All*, canto 167 , "Opposite Law is Grace, and Grace must be preserved. If the strands of Grace are unraveled, its design will be lost, and the people with it."
—*Song of All*, canto 167 , "Life's balance is as a star: on one point is Law, and Law must be upheld. If the knots of order are loosened, chaos will spill through."
—*Song of All*, canto 167 , His words echo every roar, screech, and howl of the wilds. , "Next to Grace is Reason, and Reason must be retained. If the web of Reason comes unwoven, madness will escape."
—*Song of All*, canto 167 , Her horn is heard across Innistrad, lifting the hearts of the righteous. , The ritual of making draws upon the elves' memories and pasts. And elves have long memories and ancient pasts. , "Above them all is Truth, and Truth must be set free. If the wings of Truth are clipped, the voices will fall silent."
—*Song of All*, canto 167 , As Grixis collided with the rest of Alara, the worlds began to hear the hateful whispers of the forgotten dead. , The Eldrazi don't merely extinguish life—they supplant it. , Eldrazi break concentration like glass. , "It is technically an ooze, but its lifespan measures only seconds. In that short time, its appetite for magic is extraordinary."
—Simic research notes , "I've tried so many variations on how to get rid of annoying things that it's hard to decide which one I like best."
—Ashurel, voidmage , Now you see it, now you're gone. , "He makes up his own laws, and that's dangerous to all who love peace and prosperity. Kill him on sight."
—Mirela, Azorius hussar , "Have you ever seen a world fall to its knees? Watch, and learn."
—Ob Nixilis , Whether modeled after bear, bird, or baloth, all claws send the same message. , With a great roar, the land opened like a titan's yawn, with teeth of blackened rock and a lolling tongue of magma. , "That's no ordinary eruption!"
—Grazlash Stonehold, last words , "How can we outrun the sky?"
—Hadran, sunseeder of Naya , "The common folk call it the breaking of the crust or the spilling of fire. Geomancers call it target practice."
—Ryda, geomancer , Fire finds its form in the heat of the forge. , It moves through lava with the force of an erupting volcano. , "The bravest warriors take the shortest path to victory, whatever that path may be."
—Sakta, Atarka hunter , Seeing it coming a mile away is little comfort if you can't get out of range in time. , The mountains bend to no one. , A dragon's death is almost as feared as its life. Old, dying dragons throw themselves into volcanoes, causing massive upheaval and widespread disaster. , Like a living organism, Zendikar rids itself of infection, and it does so abruptly and ruthlessly. , The Cho-Arrim call it "the fury of Ramos." , Its claws cut faster than a flame flickers. , "I have yet to find my equal." , undefined , "Glorifying the will is a mistake. It is simply one more force to be mastered." , "Fill the sky with stuff!" , "Watch yourself," warned Starke. "These plants aren't nice when they're hungry." , The seed of a world's evil. , "I stepped out. I did not step down." , The undead may outlast the living, but those who have never lived outlast them both. , The missing piece to every puzzle. , A missing piece in search of a puzzle. , After making the Peach Garden Oath, the three brothers raised an army of 500 youths to fight the Yellow Scarves rebellion. , "I'm always a little leery of anyone who offers to kill other people for free."
—Gerrard of the *Weatherlight* , "For four hundred years, I have led armies of conquest. These lands hold nothing that can stand against me." , There's no known antidote for the cobra's venom . . . or its appetite. , There is no boat big enough. , "These days, there's no shortage of food for the nulls of Guul Draz."
—Drana, Kalastria bloodchief , A typhon's escape from the Underworld makes armies flee and kingdoms fall. , The purest devotion isn't the Blood Fast itself, but the craving that follows. , Shepherds in Kalonia know it's better to let sheep roam than have them be trapped when the wurms are feeding. , "If you think you've killed one, guess again."
—Thalia, Knight-Cathar , "I used to hurl rocks and eat scraps of meat burned over a fire. Look at what I've become and tell me Simic does not hold infinite possibility." , Roots reach deep, and sometimes they tap into things better left undisturbed. , The sea is always hungry. , An ageless order, the votaries receive the gift of rejuvenation from the temple gardens they guard. , "I prefer loyalty to be a matter of respect, not of magic. But one does what one must."
—Kaalia of the Vast , "Soaring is wasted on the winged."
—Edric, Spymaster of Trest , "Ruhan would never agree to such terms."
—Ruhan of the Fomori , "I grant you blades—on the condition that they are not pointed at me."
—Damia, Sage of Stone , "Peace is a privilege you haven't earned."
—Tevesh Szat , "Savagery is the birthright of every creature that draws breath—or wishes it could."
—Karador, Ghost Chieftain , Voyager staffs are sought by those hoping to find an escape from the sprawling glut of Ravnica. , Philosophers say those lost at sea ascended to a more perfect realm. Sailors say they drowned. , "None can own the land's bounty. The gods made this world for all to share its riches. And I'm not just saying that because you caught me stealing your fruit." , Abandoning both queen and church, he chose to follow power. , It wasn't long before the taverns of High and Dry were full of whispers about the new captain who could turn a person to stone with a glance. , "You might have pleaded your case with my queen earlier. Now I am here, and it is far too late." , It's the favored mount of military commanders as well as anyone with a flair for the dramatic. , "With a diet of hydras, giants, and massive serpents, anything would get that big."
—Corisande, Setessan hunter , "I could demonstrate how the leonin sunsplicer works, but then you'd be too dead to buy one." , He experiences every emotion with passion and repays every slight with vengeance. , He fashions stirring words with as much passion as a smith fashioning a warhammer. , "I will carve my people's vengeance on the face of Phyrexia." , All the fury of the Vulshok with only a trace of their recklessness. , Vulshok sorcerers train by leaping into electrified storm clouds. Dead or alive, they come back down with smiles on their faces. , It must eat its weight in metal daily, or its furnacelike belly will consume itself for lack of fuel. , "When something dies, all things benefit. Well okay, just our things."
—Ezoc, Golgari rot farmer , "Don't worry, sweet brother. Help is on the way."
—Ghoulcaller Gisa , The trees have ears, eyes, and teeth. , Hers is an ancient form of necromancy, steeped in shamanic trance and ritual that few skaberen or ghoulcallers comprehend. , "Kinjalli's encompassing rays herald new life in the moment of the sun's dawning."
—Chitlati, Lightning Rider , Land charred black, rivers boiled, Crops and wells alike despoiled, Mountains leveled, forests felled— Footprints of the beasts of Keld. , "So the vulture said to the griffin, 'You gonna eat that?'"
—Azeworai, "The Ugly Bird" , "Our foes are many and mighty, but not as many as the trees or as mighty as the sea." , On the open sea, there is nowhere to hide. , "When the forest walks, it's too late to run."
—Horent, Khalni druid , Its pulsating cry shatters bonds of iron, granite, and servitude. , "You see a bird, an oak, a packbeast. I see the potential for an army."
—Lalia, Selesnya dryad , Anyone who thinks merrows have more brains than brawn has never been run over by one. , "Once each year, the oni and other evil spirits paraded through villages to disturb mortals' sleep. During the war, this parade became a nightly event."
—*Observations of the Kami War* , In the absence of life, something yet grows. , Crafted by lullmages and bound to the land, it alters itself to match the tumultuous terrain. , "Feeding a normal army is a problem of logistics. With zombies, it is an asset. Feeding is why they fight. Feeding is why they are feared."
—Jadar, ghoulcaller of Nephalia , The Walking Dead are the remains of freakish experiments by the Necromantic Lords. , Such sacrilege turns blinding grief into blinding rage. , Dreams, by definition, live shorter lives than those who dream them. , Not only does it catch fish, it cleans them too. , "The fortress is not what it seems."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi machinist , When Captain Thorn adds a new ship to his fleet, he gives the crew a simple choice: follow me, or fall in the sea. , When no falcons fly, beware the sky.
—Femeref aphorism , Blood is thicker than mortar. , Each flower identical, every leaf and petal disturbingly exact. , "Graveyards are sacrilege! A waste of perfectly good bones."
—Keren-Dur, necromancer lord , Sleeping in brambles
—Elven phrase meaning "plagued by guilt" , "Ow! Ow ow ow! Oooh, ow, OW!" , "I shall make walls of their flesh, and their blood will be my mortar."
—Kaervek , It provides what every discerning mage requires—time to think. , "The injury was being caught between this world and our own; the insult was to find walls within."
—Lyna, soltari emissary , It reflects only nightmares. , An ever-moving swarm of dust engulfs and disorients anything that comes near. , The ground shuddered violently and the earth seemed to come to life. The elemental force contained in the vast wall of earth was trapped, bent to its controller's will. , The ceiling and the floor fell in love, but only the wall knew.
—Dal saying , "This is a fine suit, armorsmith. I will be safe from harm. If only you could forge rings to mail the rest of my people . . ."
—Lord Hilneth , Mercy is for those who keep their distance. , "You need a six? All right everyone, she needs a six!" , "I welcome it. The pasture is cleared of weeds and the wolves are frozen solid."
—Lumi, goatherd , The blinding barrier served Benalia better than a hundred shields. , The wisest man builds his house *behind* the rock. , At a distance, we mistook the sound for a waterfall . . . . , "What cage would you rather be inside of than out?"
—Daru riddle , "And through the drifts the snowy cliffs
Did send a dismal sheen:
Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken—
The ice was all between."
—Samuel Coleridge, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" , Urza saw the wall and realized that even if he tore every Phyrexian to pieces, they would still resist him. , "Ya can eat it or ya can weave it, but ya can't fight in it."
—Zeki, reef pirate , "Now *there's* something you don't see every day."
—Jaya Ballard, Task Mage , As many attackers were dazzled by the wall's beauty as were halted by its force. , Those who intrude upon the Dimir seldom remember that they have done so. , Fog haunts the streets, rendering familiar as otherworldly, changing neighbors into shadows, and muffling cries for help. , Mulch is the fabric of life in the forest. Plants live in it, they die in it, and then they become part of it, feeding countless generations to come. , "I search for a vision of Zendikar that does not include the Eldrazi."
—Expedition journal entry , Families of the fallen donate the swords of their loved ones to bolster the city's defenses. , Like so many obstacles in life, the Wall of Opposition is but an illusion, held fast by the focus and belief of the one who creates it. , The power of the forest takes a hundred forms. Some are more surprising than others. , "In this blessed structure let the very walls baptize themselves in the blood of intruders."
—Stronghold architect, journal , Telim'Tor could no longer recall the exact number of assaults—but his troops could. , The lives of elves are long, but their memories are longer. Even after death, they do not desert their homes. , "Mana grows and changes like the roots of a plant. Like a plant, it must be nurtured."
—Nissa Revane , "It's strangely satisfying seeing an undead killing machine from another world standing befuddled in front of a wall of text."
—Lavinia , "It's the pokey bits that hurt the most."
—Ib Halfheart, Goblin Tactician , "It is the nature of evil to turn you against yourself."
—Starke , "A stick is your friend. A pointed stick is your good friend. An army of pointed sticks is your best friend."
—Onean sergeant , The ground itself lends its strength to these walls of living stone, which possess the stability of ancient mountains. These mighty bulwarks thwart ground-based troops, providing welcome relief for weary warriors who defend the land. , "When I said we needed more swords to protect the realm, this was not quite what I had in mind."
—Olander, tactician of the Northern Verge , Rootlike fibers travel far from Mirrodin's metallic forests, emerging from the crust to drink in the mana-infused sunlight. , "Many have been lost to pity."
—Karn, silver golem , The foolish try to leap through the unlit spaces. The arrogant believe the fires harmless. The wise find a different door. , "Walls of a castle are made out of stone,/ Walls of a house out of bricks or of wood./ My walls are made out of magic alone,/ Stronger than any that ever have stood."
—Chrysoberyl Earthsdaughter, *Incantations* , Like all jungle plants, the vines must fight and claw for sunlight. Once their place is secured, they grow strong, sharp, and impenetrable. , What wall can never be climbed, but is always scaled?
—Nakaya riddle , A deafening roar arose as the fury of an enormous vertical river supplanted our serenity. Eddies turned into whirling geysers, leveling everything in their path. , They wondered at the size of it. It wondered which to eat first. , Orcish lumberjacks spent the night sharpening their blades and resting for a day of labor. They awoke to find that the forest had been making its own preparations. , In Yavimaya, flying low to join a battle can be a costly mistake. , Most dirtwalkers only know of the vicious merrows that dwell in the shallows. They can't begin to fathom the wickedness that skulks in the Dark Meanders. , "Precise, clean cuts. No one saw anything. Again. Tag the report with my code and file it."
—Lavinia , For every tree who falls, there are countless sprouts waiting to rise. , It allows those with dangerous weapons to pass. But not those with dangerous thoughts. , Forever restless. Forever growing in number. , "Learn from your enemies, but do not tolerate them." , The evincar has many ways of keeping track of his subjects. , Tired of waiting for a dragon to eat them, some hardy goblins struck out to become meals for the unknown. , His tales are as tall as he is, and only a giant's life is long enough to listen to them all. , "I saw them once, when I was a child. They led me to my parents' arms when I was lost. Why have they abandoned me now? Why won't they take me home again?"
—Unnamed beggar , "Dominaria touches us all."
—Molimo, maro-sorcerer , The crumbling temples on the tortoise's back are monuments to the decadence of the ancient Sultai. Though it harkens back to the era of the khans, Silumgar allows it to walk his territory as a warning to those who would oppose him. , Humans still feared wolves, though no connection between them and the curse of lycanthropy had ever been proved. , "How terrible to wander wishing only to escape oneself."
—Taysir , "A good steed will carry you home. A great steed will carry you to glory."
—Syr Alin, the Lion's Claw , Below the great river, a bustling hub channels the flow of merrow trade. , You'll never miss what you never had. , It gives legs to the earth and wings to the sky. , Made by the mad for the work of the wicked. , "Trust me. The reward's not worth it." , "The Houses always hope for peace, but we always pack for war."
—Gvar Barzeel, krumar commander , The rhythm isn't a call to arms, but a signal that the goblins have made a new enemy. , "I wouldn't advise using it with a Woolly Mammoth, but it's quite appropriate for many other beasts."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , "One bite from that dog will send you to the healer's tent for days."
—Watchmaster Finn of An Karras , War begins with one red ember. , In dire times, even a place of refuge can become a weapon of war. , On Evos Isle, the swift and formidable aven enforce the will of the ruling sphinxes. , The wastelands disorient even the most experienced scouts, making them easy prey for Kozilek's drones. , He draws strength from a vast source few mortals can fathom. Designed by Isaiah Cartwright , "Strength, skill, rage—all have their limits, but patience can be infinite." , The wardens guard the sacred documents of Tarkir's history, though they are forbidden to read the words. , Weak and strong alike seek shelter beneath its branches. , Mages dare not attempt magic in its grotesque presence. , Reluctant to strike at the kami directly, some kitsune trained in more passive fighting techniques. , "The Eternals had to endure Amonkhet's five trials. Let's see if they can pass the Trial of Ravnica."
—Jace Beleren , Dromoka's brood emerge from the dragon tempests covered with tough scales that protect them from most clan weapons and magic. , The first wave of slivers perished from the Riptide wizards' magic. The second wave shrugged off their spells like water. , "When elephants fight it is the grass that suffers."
—Kikuyu proverb , The falcon is the picture of nobility, maintaining a regal bearing even as it conducts the bloody business of war. , Minotaurs favor magic that manifests as weapons wrapped in flame. , "No sun or fire can warm my blood quite like a war flare."
—Urut Barzeel, Mardu hordechief , Bant mages still call to the heavens for aid, but angels are not the only ones who answer. , The reverberations course through the warriors' veins, beat with their hearts, and pound with their footfalls as they charge into battle. , "There is no time to remedy our enemies' ignorance. Blast it out of them."
—Aurelia , To split wood with it would be sacrilege. This tool has but one purpose, and that is war. , "The old ways were for a winter world. We do what's best for us, not for the past. We are Keldons!"
—Grand Warlord Radha , I didn't think mammoths could ever hold a candle to a well-trained battle horse. Then one day I turned my back on a drunken soldier. His blow never landed; Mi'cha flung the brute over ten meters. , Before Aurelia denounced Niv-Mizzet, the two guilds had collaborated on the Warmind Initiative in pursuit of the ultimate soldier. , Funny how money and war travel so well together. , Its wings beat to the howls of war and fan the fires of rage. , The best defense is a good offense. , "Flame grows gentle with but a little distance."
—Orim, Samite healer , No battle means more to a Mardu warrior than the one that earns her war name. , "The folk of the Karplusan mountains are impossible to ambush."
—Lovisa Coldeyes, Balduvian chieftain , "When you are felled by my mace, you shall know it was divine fate." , Cho-Manno had never seen Mercadia City's forces fight so well. The magistrate must have hired a new hero. , Ghouls are often found skulking on the fringes of great battles, showing themselves only to snatch the wounded and weak, dragging their victims screaming into the shadows. , "The spirit of the devout is easily crushed by the loss of hope."
—Fallen angel , Each cryptolith twists the plane's mana, bending its flow to a singular purpose. , The Gruul seek unbounded strength. The Dimir deliver cruel irony. , New insights yield new senses. , Even wurms start out small. , "Let nothing take away from the purity of swords clashing or of arrows taking flight toward the breast of evil." , There is always a rabble to be roused. , "What do they need all this stuff for? They're dead. We're alive. Simple enough." , "If one can associate any virtue with the eyeblights, it is the talent some achieve in disposing of them. I have seen the slaying of boggarts raised nearly to an art form."
—Fiala, Gilt-Leaf winnower , "And that's when it was discovered that boggarts have just half a brain."
—*The Book of Other Folk* , Underling Ethu's 263rd report read simply "Yes, my lord. Overwhelmingly, my lord." This marked the end of the Mirran-Phyrexian War. , She represents not hope, but hope's desperate fury. , Only a matter as vital as destroying Volrath could bring together the reclusive kor people. , It is not the absence of fear that makes a warrior, but its domination. , "The day will come when the righteous warrior faces a battle she cannot win. She will greet that day as she has any other."
—Asmira, holy avenger , "Let each challenge make you a better warrior."
—Anthousa of Setessa , "If I fail, my head is yours."
—Warrior's oath common during the Three Kingdoms period , A figure is moved on a map, and the tide of war changes. , Soaring over Vitu-Ghazi, New Prahv, and Orzhova, the Conclave's trained falcons provided critical intelligence. , "Aren't there boggarts enough in Lorwyn? Couldn't it turn into a sheep? Or a sunflower?"
—Olly of Goldmeadow , Razia, archangel of war, demands total commitment. , "Listen to the roar! Feel the thunder! The Immersturm shouts its approval with every bolt of lightning!" , The worst thing about being a depraved pirate is having to work with a bunch of depraved pirates. , Eyeballs that portend unpleasant futures become slimy snacks instead. , "Too much work—it takes a long time to break them in, and more than a few recruits."
—Grebog, goblin swine-rider , "In a town shaped by the subtle machinations and political intrigue of its guilds, it's reassuring to see a goblin waving his torch and screaming about some nonsense or other."
—Agrus Kos , Once she sang sailors to their doom. Now she leads them to glory. , "Be like the grazers of the Saruli. Keep your herd close, and stay alert for encroaching danger."
—Lalia, Selesnya dryad , "It's not the darkness I fear but dull and numbing shades of gray."
—Sydri, galvanic genius , Once a fierce foe, she would become one of Madara's greatest protectors. , "I doubt that faeries understand how short their lives are, compared to the rest of us. If they did, would they so readily charge into battle, heedless of the danger before them?"
—Awylla, elvish safewright , As the Second Sun glided into its final position in the sky, a chorus of wings sounded to herald the return of Nicol Bolas. , Chainer's insanity touched nearly every living thing—including viruses. , "The land promises nothing and keeps its promise."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , All but the gods fear the scorpion's sting. , "The Gruul embrace all things poisonous and living in the cracks of society."
—Teysa Karlov, Grand Envoy of Orzhov , Designed by the Magic community , Its growl is a long, rumbling grind of gears and clockwork, its bark a blast of hissing steam. , "Lost in the woods" is an optimistic way to describe a villager's disappearance. "Found in the woods" is frequently more appropriate. , "I have spied them, wandering and watching—but for what? I fear they watch for us."
—Yonat of Amrou , They are tasked with protecting the entrance to the embalming chambers. , "Before we can destroy our enemies, we must find them. We must peer into every wretched hovel and every teeming market."
—Baral, Chief of Compliance , Loitering is not only illegal but unwise, since those who stay too long in one place are apt to be stepped on. , The forked tongue of the naga is sensitive to drifting scent trails from the past, present, and sometimes even the future. , The wings are held in place by wicker rods. The rods are held in place by pure faith. , Only in Ravnica do the wolves watch the flock. , "Beware an eddy where there should be none or a stretch that flows too fast or too slow."
—Old Fishbones, Martyne river guide , Unpredictable as the sea itself, water elementals shift without warning from tranquility to tempest. Capricious and fickle, they flow restlessly from one shape to another, expressing their moods with their physical forms. , Closing time comes earlier to some than to others. , "They come to drink, to bathe, and—I believe—to play." , The trees pull water from deep underground, filling the forest for miles. , Shopping List
Lamp-hand attachment
X-ray contact lenses
Discount death ray
Two-headed hammer
Kitten-fish , "This creature has innate perceptiveness. It knows when to rise and when to vanish into the tides."
—Jestus Dreya, *Of Elements and Eternity* , "Fly us higher, out of its storm."
—Sisay, captain of the *Weatherlight* , The river is a powerful friend. , "Be as water: untamed and unheld, yet inexorably flowing toward a greater goal."
—Shensu, Riverwheel mystic , Few believe Duskmantle exists. Fewer find it. None live to bear witness. , Tritons search for omens in its wake. , "Consider the wave: how weak the mother yet how strong the child."
—Tywanna, Shaper Guildmage , "Darius?"
"Yeah?"
"There's a goblin sneaking up on you."
"So?"
"Just sayin'." , We shall suffer turmoil equal to that which we have wrought, whether in this life or the next. , The sea of fear has endless depths. , The greatest gift you can give a sea aven is solitude. , "Do you see? All of Tazeem strains at its tether."
—Noyan Dar, Tazeem roilmage , "Show them what it means to be the source of nightmares!"
—Ulrich, Krallenhorde alpha , It is the forest beyond the horizon, the mountain waiting to be climbed, the new land across the endless sea. , Its stature and stride increase with each step it takes. , "You reek of corruption," spat the knight. "Why are you even here?" , A true shortcut isn't a way other people don't know; it's a way other people can't go. , "The giants follow the flow of aether, and twice a year it leads them through here. Lesson learned. More clearance is needed."
—Sram, senior edificer , Goblin cavalry tactics consist of pointing a beast in a direction and hanging on for as long as possible. , If one of the anointed fails to serve with perfect obedience, the desert is always ready to receive it. , "No home, no heart, no hope."
—Stronghold graffito , "For strength to have any meaning, there must also be . . . you." , During the brothers' childhood, Tocasia took them to explore the sacred cave of Koilos. There, in the Hall of Tagsin, Mishra discovered the mysterious weakstone. , "No, I don't believe they have the proper permits for those, but I'm not going to be the one to ask."
—Caru, Consulate warden , Revenge is a path inevitably walked alone. , No weapon stays on the rack for long in the Burning Yard. , "When I'm done training you, anything will be a deadly weapon." , "I would rather cast myself into the abyss than let my blood stain the cap of those monsters."
—Syr Alin, the Lion's Claw , "My grandmother once told me the future of our world was inside the Weatherseed. When I touched it, I knew she was right." , Two days after the forge was completed, the faeries were immune to its flames. , "Quell your ego and anywhere can be as calm as a hurricane's eye." , Destiny is a flickering path among tangled possibilities. , "Your waters sustain the living and carry the dead. Mighty Luxa, let your power flow through me!" , "Lightning in a bottle? That's not where I need it." , Cephalids specialize in lose-lose situations. , Eight legs carrying endless phobias. , "When Byoog reached down to pull up a bit of root for the stew, he didn't expect the root to pull back."
—A tale of Auntie Wort , "Something's causing electrospheric disruption in the blazekite's spire-vanes. Find the cause, and tell them to keep it up!"
—Juzba, Izzet tinker , The battle of Puyang marked the beginning of the end for Lu Bu. He lost the city—and later his life—to Cao Cao. , Cao Cao was more concerned with capabilities than lineage. He excelled at recruiting and retaining men of talent to serve him. , When immovable object turns to unstoppable force, it's best to just get out of the way. , Sometimes the weight of the world on your shoulders is a literal one. , In lives that have stretched for centuries, there are bound to be a few awkward silences. , "Finally, a good use for an Azorius courthouse."
—Ghut Rak, Gruul guildmage , Proud Alkmenos, who would not bow to Erebos in death, is now bowed by his own hubris for all eternity. , Wei won the battle of Hefei when Zhang Liao defeated Sun Quan and then foiled a Wu scheme to incite rebellion. , "Emrakul makes apparent those whom she has favored."
—Runo Stromkirk , Krosa's distorted groves bear strange fruit. , All boggarts have an auntie, but they don't all have a mum. , He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared."
—Sun Tzu, *Art of War* (trans. Giles) , At the battle of Chang'an, Ma Chao defeated the two generals Cao Cao sent to guard the pass but was forced to flee when Cao Cao's trickery turned his own ally against him. , Most of the constructs the renegades used against the Consulate weren't originally intended for combat. But some didn't require much modification. , "Let's err on the side of glorious mayhem." , The avant-garde among Ghirapur's inventors disregard the Consulate's safety standards completely. , "Airships are too confining. If I'm in the sky, I want to feel the wind in my hair and taste the aether." , The wires crawl over broken metal and heat themselves to melting, filling cracks quickly and efficiently. , "The fires of invention burn in all of us. I fight for the freedom to unleash those flames."
—Pia Nalaar , "Those talons really dig into your skin, but it's better than being dropped."
—Rafiq of the Many , It stops flying only as its life comes to an end. , "You've discovered that boggarts bite, I see. And will the militia be chasing this lot? . . . Ah, you're staying in town to avoid Nath's hunt. Wise. Now this poultice . . ." , "I knew this day would come," said Urza. Looking at the destruction, Barrin sighed, "You don't have to revel in it." , When you have given everything, then you are capable of anything.
—Well inscription , When you have given everything, then you have everything to gain.
—Well inscription , Some say the knowledge lost during the Ritual of Rebuking is returned through the well's waters. , "Close your ears to the voice of greed, and you can turn a gift for one into a gift for many." , To become is to understand. , "Expect nothing but scorn, flattery, and lies. And never turn your back on him."
—Northern paladin , undefined , As a test of calm and compassion, a Jeskai monk softly approaches a grazing sambar and offers it a lotus from his or her hand. If the creature eats, the student ascends to the next level of training. , Ever the warrior, Glissa responded with a "wedgie from beyond Uranus." , "It's no Ornithopter, but then I'm no Urza."
—Arcum Dagsson, Soldevi Machinist , Every life ends, but life itself never does. , "I'd like to buy a bowel." , "I can see why this appeals to Thassa."
—Kiora , "Get it? Bunnies, letters, -X/-X? Me neither."
—Bucky, flavor text writer , "Never subtle nor cryptic is the reckoning of the mighty."
—Mayael the Anima , To hone swords and dull minds.
—Whetstone inscription , "Thought? Deceit? Progress? Now you're just making it hungry."
—Abral, kithkin alchemist , His bolas whirl like galaxies, but it's his enemies who see stars. , The slag-workers wasted no time in creating their own flare pulses to cleanse the area of the *incompleat*. , "Now that I have your attention, perhaps I can tell you of the Order." , "If you don't hit your adversaries while they're down, they might get up again." , If the Whippoorwill remains silent, the soul has not reached its reward. , Keldon soldiers learn to move faster than the whip. , Llanowar forges weapons of steel. Yavimaya grows her weapons within. , "I swear the clouds were created just so the drakes would have a place to lurk."
—Kasharri, skyknight , Pity the tailor. , "It wags its tail when it's happy. It wags its tail when it's angry. Nope, there's no good time to be around a whiptail."
—Rugar, Leaguehall Infirmary patient , It's hard to say for certain which end is more dangerous. , Their favorite food? Wind dancers. , "Where'd all the birds go?"
—Kaldrin, jungle sightseer , "Our creations are more than mere things. They have life in them, little bits of ourselves."
—Saheeli Rai , The first tentative flaps are like a song to his soul. , "Direct confrontation never was to the orcs' taste."
—General Varchild , Amid this whirling hurricane of blades, there is no calm eye in which the hapless can find shelter. , Where the wind meets the water, change is inevitable. , Urza tried to rule the air, but Gaea taught him that she controlled all the elements. , The Flowing Staff technique does not differentiate between offense and defense. , "No, no, and ... no." , As Narset struggled to meditate, tiny dragonlings spiraled around her, conjuring thoughts of ancient clans. , The maneuvers of the Abzan formation intrigued Ojutai in both their complexity and their futility. , He has a job to finish, and it's you. , "Look how they beg for the knife! The Demonlord has trained them well." , She speaks only in whispers but can be heard over the fiercest storm. , Spy for today. Plan for tomorrow. , It glides through the shadows until it reaches yours. , "Sure, I hear things. I hear plenty. But how am I to talk with this parched throat?" , Such cloaks are in high demand both by assassins and by those who fear them. , Your thoughts are no longer your own. , "I followed her song only to find it was a dirge."
—Crovax , Ears can't hear them. Eyes see too many of them. , Out of the blackness and stench of the engulfing swamp emerged a shimmering figure. Only the splattered armor and ichor-stained sword hinted at the unfathomable evil the knight had just laid waste. , Saltfield nomads call a sudden storm a "whitemane." , "Honor your steed and it will carry you to great deeds—and bring you home to tell of them." , All over the Razor Fields, Whitesun is celebrated. Even the followers of the rebel Juryan, far from the Cave of Light, bow their heads in reverence. , After the Battle of Liet Field, the white sun crested above Taj-Nar, bringing hope to all who survived the carnage. , Stand against the crash of the river's rapids and you will know the power of the naiads. , The sound of children weeping is a song that fills its heart with joy. , "Some are born to greatness. You were born to scrub greatness's floors." , "The blood on my hands is merely proof of my ambition."
—Kaervek , "Living scarecrows make a mockery of the natural order. Dead ones make fine hats." , It's the twisted creation of a kithkin diviner who dreamed of very large crows. , When there were no more crows to scare, it focused its efforts elsewhere. , "How thin is the veneer of civilization! A modest measure of panic will wash it off completely."
—Guard Erdrud of An Karras , Named for the eastern part of the sky, the source of energy and renewal, Guan Yu's crescent-moon blade weighed over 100 pounds. , Even the lost and undead need a protector. , "High in the Karplusans, death is swift and razor-clawed."
—Arna Kennerüd, skycaptain , "When they covered the world in city, all they did was give themselves nowhere to run." , A howl on the wind hides many dangers. , They are the voice of the wild, crying out with nature's fury and bringing forth its primeval might. , "You can tell something's really valuable by the sound it makes when you slam your staff into it." , Once part of a wealthy merchant's private zoo, the herd roams feral throughout the Tenth, where it will remain until the guilds can agree to relocate, cull, or befriend it. , You'll never get a Keldon's goat. , "When civilization reaches out its greedy hand, take it off at the wrist."
—Garruk Wildspeaker , "I will tell my father's stories . . . . How the elephants trampled the leopard cub, and its father, though he knew, killed nine goats instead."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , "Don't be so quick to reclaim the thawing lands. They might have acquired a taste for freedom."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , "I felt as if I were moving in brackish water, as if I were drowning, even though I knew I stood on dry land."
—Dindun of Kulrath Mine , "Walls crack. Buildings fall. Always the wilds return."
—Domri Rade , "I opened my mind to the immensity of the wonders around me. It was only then that I could see the Great Conduit."
—Rashmi, aether-seer , Fire is always at the top of the food chain, and it has a big appetite. , Devils sow grief and harvest glee. , "Fire is always dancing, leaping and whirling, seeking more fuel. It never rests, so why should I?"
—Chandra Nalaar , "The efreet is a striding storm with a voice that crackles like fire."
—Qhattib, vizier of Amiqat , Farmers typically keep their flocks at thirteen sheep—one to distract the griffins while they take the other twelve to market. , If you stop to listen, you can hear it grow. , "Hear me, stone, root, branch: be the fist of this land. Turn back those who trample upon your domain."
—Song of the Shaper , No guts, no glory. , "Life as we know it dangles on the brink of extinction. We must show the strength they would steal from us."
—*The Invokers' Tales* , Otto the Hunter was filled with many grand ambitions. The snake was filled only with Otto. , Nissa had only the space of a heartbeat to react, her instincts steering her blade. , Jhovalls sharpen their claws on trees—or on Mercadians, if no trees are handy. , "Leotau that were born wild make the best mounts. It's like riding a thunderstorm."
—Rafiq of the Many , "Sit. Heel! Down! HELP!" , The hunted can become the fiercest hunters. , It teaches *you* to play dead. , "The Cloud Nacatl sit and think, a bunch of soft paws. We are the Claws of Marisi, stalking, pouncing, drawing blood." , It has the run of the swamps, and it knows it. , "May your day never match your expectations."
—Scriptus Fleen, flectomancer , Two times the size, four times the smell. , Never mistake deception for cleverness. , Some elves battled too long in the deep shadow, their swords dipped too often in tainted flesh and poisoned blood. , Though the shaman rarely got what she wanted, she was never disappointed in the result. , "We all began in nature, and nature is where we belong." , The geists that dwell in the deep forests of Kessig are as untamable as the woods themselves. , If you're lucky, the centaurs will give a single warning to leave their territory before driving a spear into you. If you're unlucky, the spear is the warning. , In Ravnica, there are maladies far more difficult to treat than death. , "This one was wearing shoes made of glass. She'll be no ordinary prey." , Wurm heads appear
Wild wurm near
Wurm tails you see
Wild wurm flee , "Master your mind, or I shall master it for you." , The modular nature of the automaton's design makes assembly perfectly intuitive. , "It's Snapdax. You'd have a better chance of breaching a wall with a slice of bread."
—Krek, daysquad captain , The charm of a naga is undeniable. , "On dark nights you can still see the light of the Vess girl's lantern out in the Caligo, seeking her lost brother. Those who follow are doomed to join her endless search."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess" , Some think that dryads are the dreams of trees. , The forest lives in the elf as the elf lives in the forest. , "The Autumn Willow cannot be everywhere at once—that's what her grandchildren are for."
—Gulsen, Abbey Matron , "Those of faith are those of strength."
—Autumn Willow , Nothing returns from the nightmare nests of Indatha unscathed. , Every elf in Shadowmoor is charged from birth with a terrible duty: to strike back against the ugliness and darkness, even though they are all around and seemingly without end. , Part feline, part primate, all trouble. , Goblins climb and swing with ease, whether through a pirate ship's rigging or a tree's branches. , The merfolk call the sky goddess Emeria. The kor call her Kamsa. The two races agree on little except that she offers many blessings to the faithful. , "Her voice is justice, clear and relentless."
—Akroma, angelic avenger , It awakened to gloom-fouled skies and responded with a righteous rage that shook the heavens. , Every cry lifts her allies toward the thunder. , "Flying like a bird does not make you as free as one."
—Volrath , Drakes prowl the skies of Kaladesh, waiting for the perfect moment to strike. , "Rich" is a relative term. , Acolytes of the lost Lord Windgrace fight to keep Urborg relics out of Cabal hands. , Not all who remember Urza do so with fondness. , Every path leads to discovery. , Entire trees were stripped of their bark and branches by the wurm's writhing path. , Small aeronaut societies like the Wind-Kin had little to lose by siding with the renegades, and much to gain. , "Your mind is too filled with foolish concerns to hear the subtle whispers that the breeze brings." , Watching the windreaper
—Zhalfirin phrase meaning "daydreaming" , "The best spot to hook one is right behind the gills."
—Rana Cloudwake, kor skyfisher , "It's and ideal method for exploring sky ruins. The drakes sniff me briefly but then lose interest." , It pays to be at home both on the sea and in the sky. , These nimble ships were designed for hit-and-run tactics. , Loyal and passionate in battle, the Windseeker tribe roams the Green Lands near the Honeyed Sea. , "As the winds abated, there was a shower of dragonscales, then nothing more."
—Azeworai, "The Unruly Wind" , "'Tis the set of sails and not the gales Which tells us the way to go."
—Ella Wheeler Wilcox, "Winds of Fate" , "There shall be a vast shout and then a vaster silence."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , "I have foreseen that you will not pass my trial." , "To visit the sky requires bravery, and thought, and little else. To master the sky requires the binding of its masters, and little else."
—Arnjlot Olasson, sky mage , "We don't like interlopers and thieves cluttering our skies."
—Dionus, elvish archdruid , Drakes become especially voracious as they prepare for their autumn migration, hunting the city's thoroughfares from dawn to dusk. , "Currents are currents, whether in sea or sky." , Where dragons once roared, their bones now keen. , She knows the names and secrets of each of Esper's twenty-three winds. , Godo never revealed what went into his special brew, but he always had more of it after great victories. , The nacatl called this new species "vetli," their word for poison arrows. , "When the Hour of Promise arrives, the God-Pharaoh will tear down the Hekma, for its protection will be needed no longer."
—*The Accounting of Hours* , "Everything around here has cut a deal with gravity."
—Gerrard of the Weatherlight , Magic written across the sky falls like rain on thirsty ground, bringing forth wisdom in its season. , "Its weak spot is easily spotted, but only if it's swooping down on you."
—Jonald, mission naturalist , "If I were the air, I wouldn't taunt the ground. It has the weight advantage."
—Konnos, Sylvok sage , Her feathers cut the air, as sharp as they are silent. , "We are the hands of the great trees, reaching out to ensnare what threatens their branches."
—Elvish hunter , "For those of courage, even the sky holds no limit."
—Arnjlot Olasson, sky mage , Urza knew Phyrexians would come through the air and sent his soldiers to greet them. , Dalakos's invention worked . . . until it didn't. , Within the city walls, Adriana's falcons hunt vermin of all kinds. , Changeling magic grants unusual wishes. , Their bond grew over time, as did the height of their jumps. , "Progress is our great inheritance, perfection our ultimate destination." , Trust is the only bridle a pegasus will accept. , A thousand wings beating as one can choke the sky itself. , "Strength in numbers? I think not."
—Gerrard , "Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!"
—William Shakespeare, King Lear , "The mountains scream with the dragons' throats."
—Chianul, Who Whispers Twice , Dark is light and day is night When the winter moon shines. , "How could anyone survive this? There is some force at work that stifles even the will to go on."
—Naromin, veteran explorer , Summer is buried there, centuries deep; A crypt of years where seasons sleep. , An eyeblink later, all that remained of the tree-beast was the breeze of its momentum. , "The light of the Ancestor will scour the taint of darkness from the land." , Its purr is the sound of iron filings sliding down satin. , "The lifespan of a wirefly can be precisely described as 'short.'"
—Bruenna, Neurok leader , "Your words are meaningless. The rustling of leaves is the only language that makes any sense." , "The land belongs to nature as far as our eyes can see. The higher we climb, the more we can see." , Tall as a tree and probably related. , The goblins laughed as the elf ran away, until more came back. , "Most insects have been drawn to the Mirari. But all that remain in Wirewood are under my care." , "Though you may leave this haven we have found, may our strength never leave you." , "She is truly Wirewood's child now."
—Elvish refugee , "Let the wild in. Channel its strength."
—Freyalise , "What wishes do they grant? Mostly pinching-related ones."
—Omik, superintendent of waterworks , She yearned to walk on dry land so she might take her vengeance there. , "It's not what you ask for, but how you ask for it." , Selkies call to a sea they never swam, in a tongue they never spoke, with a song they never learned. , "To probe the wonders of the multiverse, to gaze upon worlds unspoiled by blade or spell . . . it's enough to make one weep for the possibilities denied." , The price of prophecy is a vacant eye socket. , The accusations spread like hungry flames. , It was built by the witch of Lochmere. Most of the wishes it grants are its own. , When it awoke, it shattered the hillsides to make way for its passage. , Many hands for many evils. , The best recipes start with reliable cookware. , Some bog witches practice the strange art of batrachomancy, reading portents in the number, size, and color of warts on a toad's hide. , "Hear us, Overmother. Let the strong thrive under your gelatinous hand, and let the weak writhe under your serrated heel."
—Prayer of the devoted , The wafting smells are both scrumptious and suspicious. , The hex swept through the village, its citizens falling one by one. , "We outnumber them! Charge! Charge! Hey, where'd you guys go? Retreat! Retreat!" , Once it consecrated the dead. Now it desecrates them. , "Life for life: this is the immutable law."
—Panya, Granger Guildmage , "Nature cares not for the knowledge to be gained from its study. Better to bleed it dry, lest its potential be wasted on lizards and leaves." , "Defense is as much a part of war as offense, the shield as important a tool as the sword."
—Alovnek, Boros guildmage , On Mirrodin, every conflict ends in either death or darksteel. , It strode through the clash of dragons, the fall of Ugin, and the rise of the khans. , "As the future slips its way into the present, it ceases to be my concern." , "Ulamog stood before us at Sea Gate, ready to succumb . . . and then Kozilek arose. Whatever hope I had for our world died."
—Vandri, Kalastria emissary , "Your pathetic ideas lie in shambles, Planeswalker. Where is your arrogant pride now?"
—Nicol Bolas , Although some of the students quickly grasped the concept, the others could summon only blackboards. , It responds with unnatural precision. , "The study of magic began when the first mage taught herself to throw lightning."
—Naban, dean of iteration , "The second mage learned to dissipate blasts of lightning. Threat and response: thus did the study of magic progress."
—Naban, dean of iteration , The legacy of Feroz lives on. , "Thoughtweft binds us together as one, part of an intricate pattern that would unravel if even one thread came loose." , "Be careful what information you ask them to find, for it will likely be the subject of tale time at the alehouse."
—Sirislav, Dimir spy , Each soul he devours adds its hunger to his own. , One head senses the curse. The second loosens it from the soul. The third drinks it as an invigorating mist. , "A few arrows aren't enough to pierce your faith, soldier. You'll be back on the battlefield by sun's dawn." , "By all means, take another step toward the captain." , "Your brother's crimes are your crimes. You stood by and lent support, so you too must face judgment." , Tired of Boros interference, the Rakdos unleashed hellraiser goblins, hoping their corpses would weigh down the halberds. , It is the call to arms, the call to fury, the call to blood. , "Knowledge is a stain that only instinct and ferocity can cleanse."
—Drarg, wolfcaller , "Steel in the heart, silver in the bow."
—Wolfhunter's creed , Released from a dark curse and bound to a higher calling. , "How can werewolves be considered abominations next to such creatures?"
—Arlinn Kord , A chorus of howls answers his call. , "The monster was gaining on them. Twice it had found them. There was only one place left to hide."
—*Tales of the Fae* , "Give them great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will eat like wolves and fight like devils."
—William Shakespeare, *King Henry V* , "The awestruck birds gazed at Wonder. Slowly, timidly, they rose into the air."
—*Scroll of Beginnings* , It carries the hopes of Zendikar's embattled wilds on its mighty boughs. , The magic used by Kessigers is known for its practical applications. , The elves of Wilt-Leaf Wood continually expand the palisade surrounding the sanctuary. They hope to one day enclose the entire forest within its walls. , Where dragons' breath once burned, their bones now freeze. , Every branch a crossroads, every vine a swift steed. , Strengthened by a thousand limbs. , "They never found the body of young Josu, or that of his murderous sister."
—"The Fall of the House of Vess" , "Every footfall on the forest floor is a heartbeat sending strength into my veins." , Changelings cannot resist the draw of a new shape, even if doing so would be in their best interests. , What is a tree? Slow hard thought. What is a flower? Swift soft flesh. What is a druid? Both. , "I sing to the branches, and they reach to the sky. I sing to the leaves, and they open to the sun. I sing to the roots, and they dig their fingers deep. I sing the song that creation sung." , Each had seen friends and family taken by the corruption, so each carried an axe at the other's request. , "Whatever did this is near. Death reversion has not yet occurred. Be alert!" , Waterways carve their routes through the land to reflect the paths the aether streams cut through the clouds. , "The elements understand better than anyone that actions speak louder than words."
—Gideon Jura , "We learned something from the Simic. Unfortunately for them."
—Nefara, Dimir agent , A mimic's disguise fools its victims just long enough to draw them within range of its venomous tentacles. , "Its darkened sap penetrates natural fibers and spreads its own genes. Emulation experiments are underway."
—Simic research notes , "Nothing could be more natural than roots sucking nourishment from the dead."
—Savra , Even among the hardiest warriors of the Temur, loxodons are respected for their adaptation to the mountain snows. , "Mammoths may be good to ride on, but they're certainly bad to fall off of!"
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , "We need not fear the forces of the air; I've yet to see a spider without an appetite."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , One of the most ferocious and deadly gargantuans, the thoctar never sees its worshippers, but it often awakens surrounded by gifts and sacrifices. , "Suck on it, Stangg!"
—Sol'kanar the Swamp King , "That was the worst experience of my days: standing there helpless as they killed my whole troop."
—Maeveen O'Donagh, *Memoirs of a Soldier* , "Walls? What walls?"
—Jaya Ballard, task mage , "Obey!" , "It was in Urza's journals that I finally found the secret at the core of the summonings."
—Journal, author unknown , "Passions can't be shackled by laws or mastered with logic. The choice is freedom or death."
—*Volume IV, The Book of Fire* , "Terror corrupts order and paralyzes instinct."
—*Volume III, The Book of Decay* , "Instinct is undaunted by terror, unchained by logic. It is the path from which all other paths diverge."
—*Volume V, The Book of Life* , "Be logical in all things. Do not allow instinct or passion to cloud your mind."
—*Volume II, The Book of Insight* , Knowledge can't be kept in a bottle or sealed in a box. It yearns to be spread and shared. , "The faithful don't succumb to terror, nor are they ruled by passion. They adhere to order, for order is life."
—*Volume I, The Book of Faith* , Ig and Burf discovered the technique by accident when Burf reached for his hammer and missed. , Oh, does your nose itch? , Sometimes the smallest things make the biggest difference. , "Fear not what's under the bed. The toys are watching."
—*Beyond the Great Henge* , YOUR AD HERE , Even the smallest spark may set a world ablaze. , Every horizon hides a new possibility. , "Aselbo soon had the rhino eating from his palm and the snake waiting at his heels."
—Afari, *Tales* , The Aurora is not the only magic capable of remaking a world. , "Why fight the world when you know who will win?"
—Nissa Revane , "The Great River will not be tamed." , "If that is what you seek, try looking in craters."
—Fodrus, mastersmith , Spawned by mages emulating the insane. , Chainer's admirers keep his dreams alive. , The ground collapsed, leaving nothing but the great Worms' mucous residues. , Even a fragment of a powerstone contains within it not just energy, but space—vast dimensions trapped in fragile crystal. , "Believe in the ideal, not the idol."
—Serra , Elspeth feared that her trespass into Nyx would not go unanswered. , Auntie always knows which berries to lick, which kithkin to trick, and what to do when either goes wrong. , Every Ardenvale aspirant must step through the flame. Their honor determines whether they burn or shine. , The greater the suffering, the sweeter the taste. , The skathul, spirits consumed by revenge, fester and seethe while looking for weak minds to assault. , Gremlins are loyal to nothing but their next meal. , Bright flames quell the darkest nightmares. , Some nature mages unknowingly took advantage of the temporal energies still swirling on Dominaria. What they mistook for healing magic was in fact the manipulation of time. , "As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods. They kill us for their sport."
—William Shakespeare, *King Lear* , "Marit Lage lies frozen in a glacier's heart. Still her dreams take form in our world, stealing the heat from our souls."
—Halvor Arenson, Kjeldoran priest , "Crush them!"
—Borborygmos , Before you travel the woods of Kessig, first get permission from those who died trying. , Rakdos festivals almost leave enough rubble in their wake to hide the bodies. , "The best construction makes the most satisfying destruction."
—Domri Rade , If no opponent can be found, ogres of the Bolrac Clan will often pick fights with buildings. , What is the sound of one head snapping? , Goblin innovator, goblin corpse. Tomayto, tomahto. , The only prince inside this frog is the one it ate. , "The meek inherit nothing."
—Sedris, the Traitor King , Perfectly adapted to cross the wastes in life, they bring the wastes with them in death. , "You shouldn't be so attached to something as fragile as flesh."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord , The Wu kingdom's well-trained admirals were integral to the Southlands' victory at Red Cliffs as well as the kingdom's defense. , At the second battle of Ruxu, the brave Wu general Gan Ning raided Cao Cao's camp of 400,000 men with only 100 cavalry. Not a single man or horse was lost. , The first battle of Hefei was Sun Quan's last as a field general. From then on he let his generals command in the field while he directed battle from behind the front lines. , A cunning strategist, Cao Ren tricked Zhou Yu by letting him enter Nanjun. Zhou Yu thought he was capturing the city until Cao Ren's arrows rained down upon him. , It takes three weeks for a patrol of hunters to down a slagwurm. It takes just as long to make a single cut in its hide. , Jevna Nor lugged it around, bragging of his triumph over the wurm. Luckily, the tavern regulars didn't notice it was only a baby tooth. , Some use magic to spy through walls. Others use it to crush them. , Both Wu and Wei warships patrolled the Yangtze River, the natural border between the two kingdoms. , In a world of bright, cloudless skies, she is the dark storm on the horizon. , "When one wolf calls, others follow. Who wants to fight creatures that eat scorpions?"
—Maimun al-Wyluli, diary , "Until you have lived as a statue, do not talk to me of pigeons."
—Karn, silver golem , When they land on you, all you can think about is tearing them off. , "My commands shall echo forever in their dusty skulls." , Designed by Rob Pardo , "I despise Vorinclex and his slobberings about 'evolution.' Only I know true progress."
—Jin-Gitaxias, Core Augur , A regular guest at the Royal Masquerade, Arien is the envy of the Court. She appears in a new costume every hour. , "A splendid talent, admired of all men! His folly lay in serving Cao Cao's power." , "The Consulate pushed me to my limit, darling, and this is the result." , "The time for subtlety is over, darling." , When Belzenlok's lieutenant Yar-Kul grew too ambitious, the Demonlord transformed him into a maggot. The frog that ate the maggot grew and grew, until a ravenous spirit burst from its body. , "Yarok's nightmares lurk and wait
Where dark despair is near at hand."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 3 , "Yarok's waters rush and rage
Where armies bled into the sand."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 2 , "Yarok grieves within the waste
Of Bala Ged's corrupted land."
—*Lament for Bala Ged*, stanza 1 , In its hoofprints, barren dust becomes fertile ground. , "We orphans of Fyndhorn have found no welcome in this alien place."
—Taaveti of Kelsinko, elvish hunter , "Few natural forces are as devastating as hunger."
—Kaysa, elder druid of the Juniper Order , Not all elves embrace the pastoral life. Some still roam the forest's edge, forever making war against their hated enemies. , The parched earth still shielded those few souls with the heart to call it home. , Her roots connect her to the forest's wishes. , "It is our third day of travel on the Yavimaya River, and still these creatures plague us. Davin Lansson, our naturalist, has facetiously labeled them 'gnats,' and the name has stuck."
—Disa the Restless, journal entry , For all its traps and defenses, Yavimaya has its havens, too. , Kavu hunt prey in packs—one kavu hunts a pack of prey. , "When their community grows cluttered, thallids begin a traditional bobbing dance, then trek out in all directions."
—*Sarpadian Empires, vol. III* , Each time the saw blade bit, the tree spat it out. , Anywhere else, colossal. In the forests of Yavimaya, commonplace. , He craves only one commodity. , The warping of bodies and souls has become the heart of Yawgmoth's existence. , Centuries ago, a mad god offered a simple trade. , The mapmaker scowled. He sighed, unrolled his parchment, and painted a large black blob where the Eternal Meadow was once marked. , Zhang Jue, leader of the Yellow Scarves rebellion, was a Taoist master and tutored his soldiers in those arts. , Over 500,000 commoners followed Zhang Jue, General of Heaven, in his attempt to overthrow the corrupt Han dynasty. , She talks using riddles her disciples alone can unravel. , It puts the "vortex" in "flavortext." , "I can call an army to my side in the blink of an eye. Best not blink." , "Nature can't be stopped. It rips and tears at Ravnica's tallest buildings to claim its place in the sun." , "I wonder what dwelled in the primordial forests before humans existed."
—Elder Rimheit , Designed by Brian Fargo , "I have an eternity to know the souls who are bound here, to behold their every facet. But moments from now they will be gagged and masked, and they shall be known by none other." , The courage of those who work the land is born of long days of labor in the hot summer sun and the cold winter wind. It is the courage of the earth itself. , "It is sacrilege to confine a gargantuan to the grinding of straight lines. I will pray that it remembers who is the master of this land."
—Syeena, elvish godtoucher , The demon's yoke is part leash, part noose. , "As I died, I rejoiced. I would see my family again. But then I woke up back on the battlefield. Back in Kamigawa. Back in hell."
—Kenzo the Hardhearted , When it awoke, the worms of the earth hissed in a chorus of beckoning. , The caress of the morning star frees all from the clutch of darkness. , Poets dream the verses of otherworldly stories. Artificers dream the blueprints of otherplanar artifacts. , Immolation is the sincerest form of flattery. , "To send the common people to war untrained is to throw them away."
—Confucius, The Analects (trans. Lau) , The Ulvenwald makes no allowances for youth. Today's newborn is either tomorrow's hunter or tomorrow's lunch. , "In the wilds, your true training will begin."
—Syr Alin, the Lion's Claw , "Too dumb, and you end up a sibsig. Too smart, and you end up a meal. Mediocrity is the key to a long life."
—Mogai, Silumgar noble , It took ninety-nine monks to weave the spell that trapped Yukora. Upon the death of the ninety-nine, the spell was broken, and the demon returned to the mortal world seeking vengeance for its imprisonment. , Theg ifts of Jund never come without a price. , "A hedron holds magic for a thousand years—or less, if need be." , "There's a word for someone who brings too much gear to battle: 'survivor.'"
—Zada of Slab Haven , From the fertile muck of Zagoth, everything—animal, botanical, and crystalline—grows with rugged beauty. , "It's just a snake. A many-eyed snake with venom that turns your blood to smoke, but still, just a snake."
—Kinnan, bonder prodigy , Hunters in the primeval wetlands become fluent in reading the ripples to tell when to pursue and when to flee. , "I do as I please, little mortal. Do go on about your wishes, though—they amuse me to no end." , "All this time I thought Squee was useless," chuckled Sisay. "Who knew he'd be such a good shot?" , "The taming and consecration of these creatures is evidence of our faith."
—Resimir, Zarichi Temple priest , The God-Pharaoh's most devoted took it upon themselves to follow his example. , "Great chains shall free our warriors."
—Oracle *en*-Vec , Parapet watchers patrol the outer edges of the doun, signaling to others who wait patiently in shadow. , Wine and balm for the confessions of the repentant. Razors and irons for the confessions of the unrepentant. , "Jharic returned from Grixis changed, a haunted look in her eyes. She destroyed them with an unholy glee that made me shudder."
—Knight-Captain Wyhorn , "Cower, fiend. The night is yours no longer." , "I'll capture gentle zebras / for your steeds and fill the stable with every kind of unicorn."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , No sheath shall hold what finds its home in flesh. , Expeditions follow the paths it leaves in its wake. , "Her people angered Zendikar, and they faced the land's wrath. That is why Nissa is the last of the animists."
—Numa, Joraga chieftain , "I was wrong. Zendikar isn't after me. It isn't after any of us. It's not evil or vengeful. It's magnificent . . . but it's in pain."
—Nissa Revane , "I defy this world to try our defenses now. Send pterons and skycats. Send Vadrok!"
—Janae, Coppercoat architect , Only from the sky can one fully understand the horrors of the wastes and the wonder of the Hekma's protection. , Once you've seen one, you'll understand why spells won't go near them. , Spells will shun you, as will everyone else. , "The knights charged forward on wings of wind, and the necromancer's horde roared in helpless rage."
—Krinnea, *Siege of the Bone Spire* , Although greatly prized among falconers, the zephyr falcon is capricious and not easily tamed. , Faeries hang beings that interest them as ornaments in the sky, each clique competing to outshine the prize of the last. , "Ojutai's rule has allowed Tarkir's monks to learn from the truly enlightened."
—Sarkhan Vol , A spiteful force exists on Ravnica that binds these ghosts to the land of the living but forbids them to touch it. , "I've never understood why so many beings lumber around on the ground. There are three dimensions, yet they use only two." , There's no difference between bone and crystal when it's piercing your throat. , The sky takes flight and the earth trembles. , "Command is the act of balancing on a vine and convincing others that it is firm ground."
—Sidar Jabari , "War is the crucible of leadership."
—Rashida Scalebane , "Never let them take their eyes off you."
—Sidar Jabari , "You returned a warrior. . . . Your hair was cut, your eye tattooed with the red triangle of war."
—"Love Song of Night and Day" , "The wind whispers, 'come home,' but I cannot."
—Teferi , Zhang Fei's uncharacteristic alliance with a defeated Riverlands general, Yan Yan, allowed Shu forces to advance through forty-five Riverlands strongpoints with no casualties. , Zhao Zilong was a brave and noble warrior. Twice he rescued Liu Bei's son, Liu Shan. , "After making me, Zhou Yu, did you have to make Kongming?"
—Zhou Yu crying to heaven on his deathbed , When Zhuge Jin proposed the marriage of Guan Yu's daugher and Sun Quan's heir, Guan Yu's arrogant refusal led to disaster. , Many Ravnicans think of nature as orderly groves and elf-tended rot farms. They haven't seen the Gruul wilds. , "Only the decadent think magic should be pristine and without cost." , Among the Zhur-Taa Clan, goblins are the first to enter battlefury. When the battle is over, the survivors are still frothing at the mouth, looking for someone to hit. , Gurley was the first to domesticate one, though his widow didn't take much solace in that accomplishment. , Zndrsplt retired from officiating when she teamed up with Okaun, but she still knows the penalties better than anyone else. , ". . . Jiang Wei alone still strove with might and main: / Nine times more he fought the north—in vain. . . ." , ". . . The kingdoms three are now the stuff of dream,/ For men to ponder, past all praise or blame." , ". . . Near death in Baidi, having reigned three years, / Bei sadly placed his son in Kongming's care. . . ." , ". . . 'First take Jingzhou, next the Riverlands; / On that rich region, base your own royal stand.' . . ." , It lives mainly on fruit, leaves, and the occasional nose. , ". . . Cao's abdication changed the face of all; / No mighty battles marked the Southland's fall. . . ." , ". . . Zhong Hui and Deng Ai next led armies west: / And to the Cao, Han's hills and streams now passed. . . ." , ". . . The world's affairs rush on, an endless stream; / A sky-told fate, infinite in reach, dooms all. . . ." , " . . . Cao Pi, Cao Rui, Fang, Mao, and briefly, Huan— / The Sima took the empire in their turn. . . ." , ". . . But the time of Han had run—could he Kongming not tell?— / That night his master star fell past the hills. . . ." , "Thrice Xuande's ardent quest led to Nanyang, / Where Sleeping Dragon unveiled Han's partition: . . ." , ". . . Three kings no more—Chenliu, Guiming, Anle. / The fiefs and posts must now be filled anew. . . ." , Nothing lives within it, yet there is life. , undefined , Shades are drawn to places of power, often rooting themselves in a single area to feed. , "There will come a day so dark you will pray for death. On that day your prayers will be answered."
—Minaldra, the Vizag Atum , "Zombies don't kill. They recruit."
—Braids, dementia summoner , It doesn't need to feed, but still it hungers. , Measure its determination by the screams of its prey. , Nothing is sacred to the undead—not even their own kind. , The single-mindedness of a zombie, the cunning of an assassin. , The real advantage of being a zombie gamer? No one notices the stench. , "Removing the encumbrance of useless brain tissue grants several advantages: a slight increase in mobility, a response of revulsion and horror from the enemy, and, in the case of large specimens, room for passengers."
—Zul Ashur, lich lord , The nomads' funeral pyres are more practical than ceremonial. , They say the Zombie Master controlled these foul creatures even before his own death, but now that he is one of them, nothing can make them betray him. , The World Spell thawed their icy graves, promising rest in soft, quiet earth at last. But Heidar called them to duty for a twisted cause. , The ripe smell of life drifted into Grixis. The dead caught the scent and with reckless hunger followed it back into Jund. , "Pick a shell upon my shore and put it to your ear. That sound isn't the sea, but the whispers of the fallen."
—Crovax , Some zombies are natural-reborn leaders. , "The first birth celebrates life. The second birth mocks it."
—Mystic elder , "With friends like these, who needs people?" , He does not tolerate intruders. , "If the griffins tell of their gods, perhaps they speak of feathers bright as the Sun."
—Afari, *Tales* , The chains obey her. Everything else would do best to get out of her way. , "Eldrazi? Ha! Try walking through Zulaport at night with your pockets full. Now that's dangerous." , "We are Kjeldorans no more."
—Zur the Enchanter , "I will go to any length to achieve my goal. Eternal life is worth any sacrifice."
—Zur the Enchanter , "A mage must be precise as well as potent; cautious, as well as clever."
—Zur the Enchanter , Zur remained aloof from Terisiare's suffering, intent only on his own perfection. , Tired of always being picked last, the wizard Zzzyxas created the ultimate revenge. , 